         AGENDA
     PLANNING COMMISSION                                       650-780-7234
                                                               City Council Chambers*
                                                               City Hall
        January 17, 2017                                       1017 Middlefield Road
            7:00 PM                                            Redwood City
                                                               *Accessible to Disabled


1.     ROLL CALL

2.     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

3.     APPROVAL OF MINUTES

       A.    DRAFT - December 6, 2016

4.     ORAL COMMUNICATIONS

        This agenda category is limited to 15 minutes to be allocated for items not on the
        agenda as determined by the Chair. If you wish to address the Planning Commission
        under Oral Communications, please complete a Speaker's Card and give it to the
        Secretary.

5.     CONSENT CALENDAR – No Items

6.     PUBLIC HEARING

       A.    Request by Valera Fooksman for a Condominium Permit, Planned
             Development Permit (PD2016-004), and Tentative Map (TM2015-008) to
             construct 10 three-story, for-sale residential condominiums at 910
             Woodside Road.

        Recommendation:
            Adopt Resolution (Attachment 1) approving the Condominium Permit, Planned
            Development Permit (PD2016-004), and Tentative Map (TM2015-008) to construct
            10 three-story, for-sale residential condominiums at 910 Woodside Road, based
            on the findings and subject to the conditions of approval listed therein.




AGENDA                    PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING                 January 17, 2017
     B.    Request by Greystar Development for a Downtown Planned
           Community Permit including two (2) guideline deviations (DPC2015-
           12), a Tentative Map (TM2015-09), and an Affordable Housing Plan to
           construct an 8-story building with 350 apartment units (including 35
           affordable units at the low income level), 1,400 sq. ft. of ground floor
           retail space, and three levels of underground parking, located at 1409
           El Camino Real

     Recommendation:
         Adopt Resolution 16-20, finding the project consistent with the Downtown Precise
         Plan EIR and approving the Downtown Planned Community Permit (DPC2015-
         12), Tentative Map (TM2015-09), and Affordable Housing Plan for a new 8-story,
         350-unit residential building (including 35 affordable units at the low income level)
         and 1,400 sq. ft. of ground floor retail located at 1409 El Camino Real, based on
         the findings and subject to the conditions of approval contained therein.

7.   MATTERS OF COMMISSION INTEREST

8.   ADJOURNMENT

     Adjourn to the next Planning Commission meeting on February 7, 2017, at 7:00 PM at
     City Hall Council Chambers, 1017 Middlefield Road, Redwood City, CA 94063

     City staff will provide agenda materials in appropriate alternative formats, or disability-
     related accommodation. Please send a written request to Steven Turner at Planning
     Services, City of Redwood City, P. O. Box 391, Redwood City, CA 94064 or email at
     sturner@redwoodcity.org including your name, address, phone number and brief
     description of the requested materials and preferred alternative format or auxiliary aid or
     service at least 72 hours before the meeting.

     A TTEN TIO N
     Speaker cards are on the rostrum. If you wish to speak, complete the card and give it to
     the Secretary.

     Planning Commission agenda materials, released less than 72 hours prior to the
     meeting, are available to the public at the Planning Division, 1017 Middlefield Road,
     Redwood City, CA 94063




AGENDA                   PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING                    January 17, 2017
   MINUTES                                                 City Council Chambers*
   PLANNING COMMISSION                                     1017 Middlefield Rd
   December 6, 2016                                        Redwood City, CA 94063
   Regular Meeting                                         Ph: 650-780-7234
   7:00 p.m.                                               Accessible to Disabled


DRAFT
COMMISSIONERS PRESENT: Commissioner Guerrero, Commissioner Hale, Commissioner
Hunter, Commissioner Schmidt, Chair Radcliffe

COMMISSIONERS ABSENT: Commissioner White, Vice Chair Bondonno

STAFF PRESENT: Planning Manager Turner, Deputy City Attorney Smith, Principal Planner
Vaughn, Contract Principal Planner Costa Sanders, PRCS Director Beth

GUESTS: None

PROCEEDINGS RECORDED: For further information not contained in this draft of the written
minutes, a DVD recording of the entire meeting is available for listening or purchase at the
Planning office, located in City Hall, Redwood City.

AGENDA POSTED: Copies of the Agenda for this meeting are posted at City Hall on the Friday
prior to the Planning Commission meeting.

   1.     ROLL CALL

   2.     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

   3.     APPROVAL OF MINUTES:

          M/S (Schmidt/Hunter) to approve the Draft Minutes of November 15, 2016 as
          corrected
          Motion Passed 4-0 (Hale Abstain)

   4.     ORAL COMMUNICATIONS:

          Stephanie Kolkka, Owner of Brick Monkey and Brick Monkey Squared, offered her
          thanks to the Planning Commission for the decisions made regarding the development
          of the downtown area. She stated that the apartments that have been built in the
          downtown area have really paid off

   5.     CONSENT CALENDAR: No items

   6.     PUBLIC HEARING:

                 A. Scoping Session for the Environmental Impact Report for the
                    proposed Veterans Memorial Senior Center/YMCA Project




                                       Page 1 of 9
Principal Planner Karen Vaughn gave presentation on the Scoping Session
for the Environmental Impact Report for the proposed Veterans Memorial
Senior Center/YMCA Project. She provided a roadmap for the presentation.

Director of Parks and Recreation and Community Services Chris Beth
discussed the background of the proposed project (presentation on file). He
stated that no design decisions have been made at this point. He stated
that they plan to hire an architect in 2017 to begin the project design. The
EIR will analyze potential impacts posed by the development.

Shannon George, David J. Powers and Associates, discussed the process
for CEQA for this project. She stated the purpose of CEQA is to inform the
public, engage the public in the environmental review process, disclose
potential impacts of the potential project, and avoid and/or reduce potential
impacts of the proposed project. She stated they would be conducting an
Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for this project. She stated the first step
of the CEQA process – issuing a Notice of Preparation (NOP) – has already
been initiated. She provided an overview of the next steps. She stated that
the intent of the scoping meeting is to identify the issues that need to be
addressed including air quality, noise, traffic, etc.

Karen Vaughn stated that they are currently in the Notice of Preparation
period. She stated that period ends December 16, 2017. She stated that
anyone wishing to submit comments should do so. Once that period ends,
a draft EIR will be prepared and released. Once the draft is released, there
will be a public comment and review period. Those comments will be folded
into a final EIR that will be reviewed again by the Planning Commission for
final review and recommendation before bringing it to the City Council. Ms.
Vaughn stated that concurrently to this process, an architect will be hired to
design the project. She stated that the goal is in 9-12 months the EIR
process and the design process will come together.

Commissioner Schmidt asked if any projects had been done to estimate the
city’s elderly population in 2030.

Chris Beth stated that they had not at those projects and had instead taken
from the last census.

Commissioner Schmidt stated that San Mateo county anticipates that the
population will be 65% overall over the age of 65 by 2030.

Commissioner Schmidt asked what would happen to the gym currently
located on Roosevelt.

Chris Beth stated that nothing would happen to the Red Morton center.

Commission Hale asked what the intended age demographic is for the
YMCA. She also asked if the YMCA would require a membership for use.

Chris Beth stated that a multi-generational facility is appealing. He also
stated that their goal is provide needed services to the elderly – specifically


                    Page 2 of 9
in terms of fitness. He stated that the YMCA works on a membership
model, but also has drop-in rates.

PUBLIC HEARING
M/S (Schmidt/Hale) to open the public hearing.

John Spotorno expressed his concern for the project, stating that it appears
to have too much construction for a park design. He stated he’d like to see
more consideration for the surrounding site. He stated he’d like to see the
design incorporate more green space. He asked if programming could be
spread to other areas of the park and also suggested that sustainable
strategies be implemented.

Walter T. Moore stated that he is thrilled for this development of project and
is looking forward to it being a resource for the community.

Kevin Heuer stated that he is alarmed by the scope and size of the project.
He fears that it will ruin the current integrity of the neighborhood. He stated
that the council should consider the implications of the development on the
neighborhood. He suggested that the scope of work be lowered to a more
reasonable level.

Debbie Moore, Board Member with the Redwood City Sharks Swim Team,
expressed concern for the development of the new YMCA and how that will
affect the long-standing tradition of the swim team at the preexisting
community pool. She stated that she would like to see the new pool support
swim teams and water polo, but has concerns that an indoor pool would be
very noisy.

Michael Simos stated that it appears the project doesn’t reflect the
character of the area. He expressed concern for losing some of the open
space in the area. He also expressed concern for the impact the
development will have on traffic. He also expressed concern for the
potential for noise pollution caused by the project. He stated that he does
support developing and improving the area, but he does not like the size of
the current design.

Michael Hitchcock stated alternatives he would like considered in the EIR.
He stated that he would like to see all the same facilities, but dispersed
throughout the city. He also stated that he would like to see a transit
alternative to the parking structure.

Steven Hernandez stated that he does not feel the proposed development
fits the property or the area. He is concerned that the development will hurt
the integrity of the area. He would like to see how the EIR address the size
of membership. He suggested rehabilitating existing buildings.

Michelle Klein expressed concerns similar to other speakers. She stated
that she is concerned about the additional stress that this development will
put on the traffic in the area and that the proposed building is too large.

JoEllen Williams stated that the project is far too large for the
neighborhood. She is concerned about paying for services at the YMCA on


                    Page 3 of 9
   property owned by Redwood City. She also expressed her concern for the
   traffic in the area. She also expressed concerns about chlorine fumes
   associated with an indoor pool.

   M/S (Schmidt/Hunter) to close the public hearing

   COMMISSIONER COMMENTS

   Chair Radcliffe stated that, at this stage, there is no formal development or
   design plan. She encouraged the community to remain active in the
   development of this project.

   Commissioner Schmidt asked a clarification question about whether the
   potential development cost of property would be $20 million. Mr. Beth
   stated that because no design exists so they do not have an estimated
   price.

B. General Plan Map Amendment Initiation, Environmental Review,
   General Plan Amendment to designate a portion of Sandpiper Park as
   Public Facilities for the City pump station and a new shared-use
   Sandpiper School classroom building at 797 Redwood Shores
   Parkway, and General Plan Consistency Finding for disposition of
   reap property

   Contract Principal Planner Costa Sanders gave a presentation for the
   proposed development at 797 Redwood Shores Parkway. She provided an
   overview of the staff presentation.

   Michael Milliken, Superintendent of the Belmont Redwood Shores
   Elementary School District, provided a background of the district and the
   project. He provided an overview of the community outreach they have
   done in the development of this project.

   Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated the item before the Planning
   Commission is the initiation of the General Plan Map amendment. She
   stated that the Planning Commission should make a recommendation to
   the City Council whether or not to approve the mitigated negative
   declaration including the mitigation monitoring and reporting plan. She also
   stated the Planning Commission should make a recommendation to the
   City Council to adopt the General Plan Map Amendment and make a
   determination of general plan consistency for the new building on city
   property.

   Principal Planner Costa Sanders gave a presentation of the project
   description (project on file). She provided an overview of the proposed site
   plan and elevation. She provided an overview of the Joint Use Agreement
   for the proposed development. She provided an overview of the General
   Plan Map Amendment.

   Demetri Loukas, Project Manager at David J. Powers & Associates,
   provided an overview of the CEQA analysis. He stated that the initial CEQA
   analysis identified some impacts including air quality, biological resources,
   cultural resources, geology and soils, and noise. Mr. Lucas stated that most


                       Page 4 of 9
of these impacts are construction-related, as is typical of most projects. He
stated that all identified impacts would be reduced to less than significant
levels; therefore, they prepared a mitigated negative declaration for the
project. That declaration was circulated for thirty days. Mr. Lucas discussed
public comments made of the CEQA analysis.

Ollie Zhou, Engineer with Hexagon Transportation Consultants, discussed
the parking lot reconfiguration and the findings of the traffic study. He stated
that the new design would reconfigure the parking lot to create better flow
through the area. He stated that the traffic study found no significant traffic
impact based on city standards. He stated that all intersections were found
to operate at acceptable levels of service.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that this project is unique since it is
a public school on city property. She stated that under CEQA guidelines,
Redwood City is considered the lead agency as required to consider the
mitigated negative declaration. As discussed, the project does include a
General Plan Land Use Map Amendment.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders provided an overview of the Staff’s
recommendation to the Planning Commission (recommendations on file).

COMMISSIONER QUESTIONS

PUBLIC HEARING

M/S (Guerrero/Hale) to open the public hearing

Mary Morrisey Parden spoke specifically about proposed placement of a
new trash enclosure structure on the existing landscape area adjacent to
the sidewalk on the east side of the project. She stated that she would ask
that applicant keep the current trash structure or design a new one. She
stated that the current design is inconsistent with the General Plan. She
stated that she would like to see the Planning Commission recommend that
the relocate the trash enclosure from the street side of the site.

Ken Grayson proposed a question about how the development will impact
current soccer fields already on the property.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that the city has plans to replace
the turf on the soccer field during 2017.

Michael Milliken responded to the trash enclosure structure issue raised by
Ms. Parden. He stated that, in meetings with the community, they prioritized
the location of the basketball courts and the trash enclosure structure. The
location of these amenities was impacted by the location of the public
bathroom. He stated that the current proposed location of the trash
enclosure was the result of several rounds of community feedback.

M/S (Guerrero/Hale) to close the public hearing

COMMISSIONER COMMENTS



                     Page 5 of 9
Commissioner Schmidt asked a question about community outreach. He
asked about the frequency and participant statistics of the community
outreach meetings.

Michael Milliken stated that they attended two HOA board meetings, the
RSCA board meeting, and meeting with the leadership of the Regatta
Homeowners Association, as well as holding two community outreach
meetings in January and March of 2016. He stated that about 30 people
attended the January meeting and about 50 people attended the March
meeting. The March meeting included a site walkthrough.

Commissioner Schmidt asked if there were any issues that the community
brought up that were not addressed.

Michael Milliken stated that he could not recall significant concerns that
weren’t addressed.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that there were general concerns
about traffic overall.

Commissioner Schmidt asked how the General Plan Amendment is
different from the one discussed on November 15, 2017.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that this General Plan Amendment
is significantly different since it is simply a minor change in land use that
allows for the expansion of land use that could be located at this site.

Commissioner Guerrero stated that she is familiar with the community
dynamics in the Redwood Shores/Belmont area and she is hopeful that the
project will alleviate some issues.

Commissioner Guerrero asked if bell times would change based on grade
levels. She also asked where the construction staging would take place and
where the construction workers would park.

Mike Milliken stated that they hope to use the parking lot better than it has
been used in the past by using two lanes for drop off. He stated that they
are open to staggered start times if the parking issues end up being worse
than projected.

Steve White, Principal at IPI Group Architects and Planners, stated that he
expects the construction staging area to be along the backside of the
building where the restroom is.s.

Commissioner Guerrero asked whether or not the construction workers
would be parking in the neighborhoods.


Michael Milliken stated that they are interested in being a good neighbor to
ensure that they do not upset or frustrate the community during the
development process.




                    Page 6 of 9
Commissioner Guerrero asked if the building would have dual plumbing for
recycled water.

Steve White stated that they considered the possibility of dual plumbing in
the building, however, problems regarding the potential for smell deterred
them from pursuing it.

Commissioner Hale stated that she sees the proposed development as
incredibly consistent with the goals outlined in the General Plan. She stated
that she is happy with the level of participation the community has had in
the development process.

Commissioner Hunter stated that he believes the development could have
been designated as a school or public facility. He asked if there were any
pro or cons to one designation over the other.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that a school designation would
limit the shared use opportunities being presented. She also stated that the
current designation attempts to encompass the existing land use of the
pump facility. She stated that the public facility designation is a broader
designation.

Commissioner Hunter expressed his concern for nearby nesting areas for
local wildlife.
Demetri Loukas stated that if a bird nest was found in the area, depending
on the species, they would be a consultation with Fish and Wildlife to
establish a buffer of anywhere from 50 to 200 feet. He stated that he has
not seen a project delayed for this reason, but it could be.

Commissioner Hunter asked about two of the letters that were received on
January 6, 2016.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that she is comfortable that all the
comments have been appropriately analyzed and addressed.

Commissioner Hunter expressed concern over some of the language in the
letter from CalTrans.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that a CalTrans permit is not
required and has attempted to clarify this with CalTrans, but has not yet
received a reply.

Commissioner Hunter asked Planning Manager Turner whether it was
common to make small changes to the General Plan.

Planning Manager Turner stated that it is rare for changes to the General
Plan to be made. He stated that this proposed change is only the second in
2016 that Staff have brought forward.

Commissioner Schmidt raise the issue of where the construction workers
will park. He stated that this is the first project in recent memory where
there is no plan for where those individuals will park. He stated he is
concerned about the lack of parking plan. He also raised the issue of the


                    Page 7 of 9
lack of purple piping and the use of recycled water. He stated that he had
never had an issue with smell, so he would be interested to hear more
about that.

Steve White stated there was consideration for recycled water in the
building, however, they opted not to pursue it because it’s not a common
plumbing approach outside of small residential developments. He stated
that they are still planning to use recycled water for the external irrigation
systems.

Michael Milliken stated that if the standard and expectation of the city is to
use recycled water within the building, they are happy to comply; however,
he stated that he didn’t believe there was the necessary infrastructure and
plumbing in place to allow for recycled water.

Principal Planner Costa Sanders stated that when she discussed this issue
with City engineering staff, they indicated that the site does not have
access to recycled water and there are no current plans in the foreseeable
future to extend it to the site.

Commissioner Schmidt asked community member Mary Morrisey Parden
whether or not she felt like her comments were heard.

Ms. Parden stated that she does not feel her comments were heard. She
recommended the inclusion of a berm in front of the trash enclosure
structure.

Michael Milliken addressed the issue of parking for construction workers.
He stated that these types of logistics are typically handled by the
construction management point person and there is sufficient room on-site.

Chair Radcliffe requested that contact information for the project contractor
be posted so community members may reach out with concerns or
questions.

Chair Radcliffe stated that with regards to the General Plan Amendment,
she believes it’s important to look at different districts and areas. She stated
that she views this amendment as more of a cleanup rather than creating a
whole new provision.

Commissioner Guerrero thanked the applicant for the work that went into
community outreach. She seconded Chair Radcliffe’s point about posting a
point of contact for the public.

Chair Radcliffe stated that there are two recommendations from the
Planning Commission. The first recommendation would be for the applicant
to post a point of contact so that the public may reach out with questions or
concerns. The second recommendation would be for the applicant to
continue looking at landscape options for the trash enclosure structure.

Commissioner Hale asked whether or not the Planning Commission may
bundle the three resolutions into one.



                     Page 8 of 9
               Deputy City Attorney Smith stated that they may..

               M/S (Hale/Hunter) TO APPROVE RESOLUTION NO. 16-22 A
               RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
               REDWOOD CITY TO INITIATE PROCEEDINGS TO AMEND THE
               STRATEGIC GENERAL PLAN OF THE CITY OF REDWOOD CITY TO
               DESIGNATE A PORTION OF SANDPIPER PARK AS PUBLIC
               FACILITIES (PF).
               Motion Passed 5-0

               M/S (Hale/Hunter) TO APPROVE RESOLUTION NO. 16-23 A
               RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
               REDWOOD CITY RECOMMENDING THE CITY COUNCIL ADOPT A
               MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION AND A MITIGATION
               MONITORING AND REPORTING PLAN FOR NEW JOINT-USE
               SANDPIPER SCHOOL CALSSROOM BUILDING.
               Motion Passed 5-0

               M/S (Hale/Hunter) TO APPROVE RESOLUTION NO. 16-24 A
               RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
               REDWOOD CITY RECOMMENDING THE CITY COUNCIL APPROVE A
               GENERAL PLAN MAP AMENDMENT TO DESIGNATE A PORTION OF
               SANDPIPER PARK PUBLIC FACILITIES (PF) FOR TH EPUMP STATION
               AND JOINT-USE OF A ANEW SANDPIPER SCHOOL CLASSROOM
               BUILDING.
               Motion Passed 5-0

7.   MATTERS OF COMMISSION INTEREST

               Planning Manager Turner stated that Staff had nothing to report. He stated
               that the next Planning Commission meeting will be held on January 17,
               2017.

               Commissioner Schmidt expressed his appreciation for the Downtown
               businesses, the community, and the council for their work in the
               development of downtown Redwood City.

8.   MOTION TO ADJOURN
     M/S (Radcliffe/Schmidt) to adjourn the meeting of the Planning Commission
     Motion Passed

     The meeting adjourned at 9:25PM to reconvene at the next Regular Planning
     Commission Meeting scheduled for January 17, 2017 at 7:00PM in the City Hall
     Council Chamber, 1017 Middlefield Road, Redwood City, California.




                                   Page 9 of 9
REPORT
                                To the Redwood City Planning Commission
                                                      From Planning Staff

January 17, 2017

SUBJECT
Request by Valera Fooksman for a Condominium Permit, Planned Development Permit
(PD2016-004), and Tentative Map (TM2015-008) to construct 10 three-story, for-sale
residential condominiums at 910 Woodside Road.

RECOMMENDATION
Adopt Resolution (Attachment 1) approving the Condominium Permit, Planned
Development Permit (PD2016-004), and Tentative Map (TM2015-008) to construct 10
three-story, for-sale residential condominiums at 910 Woodside Road, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions of approval listed therein.

BACKGROUND
The project site is comprised of two parcels – a 7,262 square foot parcel and a 6,393
square foot parcel. The site contains an existing one-story commercial building,
Thaibodia, and surface automobile parking. Multifamily residential uses are located to
the west, east, and south; commercial uses are located to the north and east. The
property is zoned Mixed-Use Neighborhood with a Mixed Use – Neighborhood General
Plan designation.

                   Figure 1: Proposed Woodside Road Elevation




PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant proposes to demolish the existing building and surface parking, remove
the existing trees, and merge the two parcels. The applicant proposes to construct one
building with 10 for-sale condominiums each with a two-car garage. The project would
provide two two-bedroom, three-bathroom units; four two-bedroom, two-bathroom units;
and four three-bedroom, three-bathroom units. The units range in size between 1,668
and 2,044 square feet.

The building would be 24,017 square feet and three-stories tall with a maximum height
of 37 feet, four inches. The project would provide one central driveway from Woodside
Road. The central driveway would be covered with living space and secured with a
wood slat gate along the public sidewalk. The project consists of stucco walls, a metal
roof and green roof, and horizontal wood details.

The project would provide a density of 32.6 dwelling units per acre. The project would
provide balconies for private open space ranging in size between 87 and 272 square
feet per balcony (between 125 and 459 square feet of balcony area per unit). The
project would provide 3,362 square feet of pervious area, including a 1,411 square foot
green roof. The green roof provides an innovative approach to provide pervious area
and meet the stormwater requirements (also known as C.3 requirements). In addition to
providing pervious area and stormwater treatment, the green roof would reduce the roof
area that reflects the sun, which supports sustainability goals of the City of Redwood
City General Plan, and absorb sound.

Landscaping would be provided in the front and rear of the site, and on the roof. All 13
existing trees on the site would be removed. The two existing street trees would be
removed and replaced with four new street trees. The project would provide a
designated area for trash and recycling for each unit accessed from the interior of
garage, and the bins would be moved to the curb on pickup days. Personal storage of
189 cubic feet would also be provided off the garage. Secured bicycle lockers would be
provided at the rear of the site with capacity for four bicycles. The project would also
provide two bike racks in the public right-of-way.

The request to merge the existing parcels into one lot and create for-sale condominiums
requires a Tentative Map and Condominium Permit. A Condominium Permit requires a
Planned Development Permit pursuant to Municipal Code Section 30.134. The
applicant is requesting to provide no guest parking pursuant to Zoning Code Section
30.4.

ANALYSIS

Zoning Compliance
The subject property is located in the Mixed-Use Neighborhood (MUN) Zoning Sub-
District. Zoning Code Article 54 (Mixed-Use Neighborhood) serves as the regulatory
framework with which the project must comply. Article 54 presents the vision and intent
of the MUN zoning district:

•   Provide opportunities for moderate-scale developments that facilitate pedestrian-
    friendly environments;
•   Provide areas for a variety of activities, including commercial, office, and moderate-
    density residential, or a mixture thereof; and
•   Consideration for sensitivity to lower-intensity adjacent uses, focus on pedestrian
    and street-oriented design, and uses that serve the immediate neighborhoods.
The project is consistent with the MUN zoning district vision and intent in that it would
provide a moderate-density residential use. The project would provide a pedestrian and
street-oriented design with new sidewalks, street trees, and front entries facing
Woodside Road. The project would provide housing near SamTrans transit (Routes 72,
275, 278) and commercial uses including grocery, food, and personal service
businesses.

As provided in Article 54, the Mixed-Use Neighborhood Zoning District has regulations
for use; new streets and pathways; open space; sidewalks, setbacks, and landscaping;
parking and storage; height, density, and intensity; and façade composition and
architecture. The project complies with all applicable regulations of Article 54 as shown
in Table 1 below.

    Table 1: Summary of Project Zoning Compliance, Article 54 (MUN District)

          Regulations                                    Staff Analysis
Use regulations                The project is consistent with the following applicable Use
                               regulations:

                                •   Multi-family dwelling is a Permitted Use in the MUN district.
                                •   No residential units are proposed within 500 feet of a freeway
                                    and the project is conditioned to require a residential noise
                                    notice.
                                •   MUN contains specific regulations for mixed-component,
                                    live/work unit, or automobile service uses, The project does
                                    not include these uses, and, therefore, is not required to
                                    comply with the MUN regulations applicable to these uses.
                                •
New Streets and Pathways       The project is consistent with the following applicable New Streets
regulations                    and Pathways regulations:

                                •   The project would reconstruct the Woodside Road sidewalk to
                                    current Redwood City standards and provide pedestrian
                                    access to the sidewalk along Woodside Road.
                                •   The project provides pedestrian walkways and bicycle lockers
                                    onsite and provides public sidewalks and public bicycle racks in
                                    the public right-of-way.

Open Space regulations         The project is consistent with the following applicable Open Space
                               regulations:

                                •   The project provides the minimum 125 square feet open space
                                    per unit in the form of balcony space for all units. There would
                                    be an average of 224 square feet per unit.
                                •   The minimum dimension is greater than or equal to six feet and
                                    open space would not look into another unit.
                                •   At 25%, the project would meet the minimum 20% pervious
                                    area requirement.

Sidewalk, Setback, and         The project is consistent with the following applicable Sidewalk,
Landscaping regulations        Setback, and Landscaping regulations:

                                •   The project is located on a primary street and would provide a
                                    12-foot wide sidewalk.
                                   •   The project would be consistent with the minimum residential
                                       front, side, and rear setbacks.
                                   •   The project would not exceed the 200-foot maximum building
                                       length.
                                   •   The project’s architectural projections would not exceed the
                                       allowed setback exceptions.
                                   •   Street trees would be spaced 20 to 40 feet apart, except on
                                       either side of the driveway where the trees are spaced further
                                       apart to prevent reduced visibility.
                                   •   Setback areas not occupied by buildings or sidewalk would be
                                       landscaped.
                                   •   The project would provide screening for fire equipment located
                                       at the front of the building. Trash and recycling would be stored
                                       in each residential unit until trash pickup day.
                                   •   The project would comply with stormwater management
                                       requirements.

Parking and Storage regulations   The project is consistent with the following applicable Parking and
                                  Storage regulations:

                                   •   Parking and access would comply with Article 30 (Off Street
                                       Parking and Loading) by providing two spaces for each unit,
                                       and meet minimum access widths.
                                   •   Parking would be provided from the interior of the site and the
                                       parking along Woodside Road (for units 1 and 10) include
                                       windows into the garages that are visible from the street and
                                       sidewalk as required by Article 54 to provide architectural
                                       treatment for parking along a primary street (Woodside Road).
                                       The ground floor contains living space with entries to the two
                                       units along Woodside Road oriented to the street, thereby
                                       meeting the requirement to provide street facing architectural
                                       treatment.
                                   •   Surface parking would be screened with a minimum two-foot
                                       landscape setback and would be located six feet from the
                                       building.
                                   •   Only one curb cut and vehicular access would be provided
                                       from Woodside Road where one curb cut is permitted by Article
                                       54.
                                   •   Article 54 requires a minimum of one secured bicycle parking
                                       space per three units. The project would provide bicycle lockers
                                       with capacity for at least four bicycles and meet the minimum.
                                       The project would also provide two bike racks on the new
                                       sidewalk.
                                   •   The project would provide at least 80 cubic feet of storage
                                       space for each residential unit, which meets the minimum 80
                                       cubic feet of personal storage required by Article 54.

Height, Density, and Intensity    The project is consistent with the following applicable Height,
regulations                       Density, and Intensity regulations:

                                   •   The project would not exceed the three story/40 foot height limit
                                       for residential only; would not exceed the maximum 40 du/acre
                                       density for residential only projects; and is not subject to a
                                       maximum FAR.
                                   •   The project would meet the 45-degree daylight plane.
                                   •   The project would meet the minimum development height of 15
                                       feet.
                                   •   The project would not require a roof height exception.
Façade Composition and          The project is consistent with the following applicable Façade
Architectural regulations       Composition and Architectural regulations:

                                 •   The project would provide a transitional space for the street
                                     adjacent units in the form of an overhang, porch, and raised
                                     planters.
                                 •   The project’s street facing facades would provide windows to
                                     provide light into adjacent spaces.
                                 •   The project would provide windows and openings for at least
                                     30% of the building face facing the street on the ground floor,
                                     and at least 20% of the building face facing the street on the
                                     upper-floors.
                                 •   Ground floor design would meet the elevation requirements
                                     because it would be 1.3 feet above existing grade, and would
                                     meet the ground floor height requirement because the ground
                                     floor height would be 10 feet.
                                 •   The project would respect, complement, and be compatible
                                     with the scale, style, theme, and design of the surrounding
                                     buildings and neighborhoods in that the project uses building
                                     materials that match adjacent buildings and balances the
                                     variation in height of adjacent buildings.


Based on the analysis above, staff determined that the project is consistent with the
regulations and intent of the MUN district.

Architectural Advisory Committee Review and Recommendation
The Architectural Advisory Committee (AAC) reviewed the project on August 18, 2016
and continued the item with direction to revise the front elevation, modify the mass, and
provide details of proposed materials. The AAC reviewed the revised project on October
20, 2016, continued the item and directed the applicant to better integrate the first floor
with the second and third floors. On November 3, 2016, the AAC reviewed revised
elevation and unanimously recommended that the Planning Commission approve the
project as revised.

Planned Development Permit
The project requires a Planned Development Permit because Municipal Code Section
30.134 requires a Planned Development Permit for a Condominium Permit. Staff’s
analysis of the Condominium Permit is provided below in the Tentative Map,
Condominium Permit, and Required Findings section (Page 7). As described in Zoning
Code Section 46 (Planned Development Permits) the Planning Commission shall
determine whether or not the Project carries out the objectives of Planned
Developments.

The purpose of a Planned Development Permit is to:
   • Encourage flexibility of design and development of land in such a manner as to
      promote its most appropriate use;
   • Encourage the development of innovative projects which incorporate the highest
      quality architectural solutions, building materials and landscaping concepts;
   •   Promote the most functional and aesthetic relationships between building
       structures, signs, open space and parking areas in residential, commercial and
       industrial zoning districts;
   •   Encourage the development of quality open space and recreational opportunities
       within projects, including providing for clustered development and increased
       open space; and
   •   Incorporate stormwater treatment provisions in site planning.

Further, with a Planned Development Permit, the design and construction quality
contained in all aspects of the proposed development plan is expected to exceed the
quality standards typically required for new developments located in similar zoning
districts.

The proposed project is consistent with the intent of the Planned Development Permit
as follows:
• The project promotes the most appropriate use of the site in that it would provide a
    moderate-density residential project with sensitivity to adjacent uses and street-
    orientated design.
• The project is innovative in that it would provide Redwood City’s first green roof.
• The project provides a functional and aesthetic parking design in that one vehicular
    access covered by floor area results in less visible parking and less asphalt exposed
    to reflect heat from the sun.
• The project encourages the development of quality open space in that balconies are
    provided for all units, and stormwater treatment provisions are included in the site
    plan.

Staff believes that the project would exceed the standards typically required for new
developments through provision of a green roof and varied and high quality architectural
details.

Parking Request
The project requires one guest parking space for every four units for a total of three
guest spaces. The applicant is requesting to eliminate the provision of guest spaces.

Section 30.4 of the Zoning Code permits the responsible review authority to reduce or
eliminate the required number of guest or visitor spaces for a multiple dwelling
development if one (1) of the following conditions applies:

   a. Adequate street parking is available, and/or
   b. Only one (1) parking space is reserved per unit for residents, and/or
   c. The site is in close proximity to retail shopping facilities and services.

The project site is in close proximity to retail shopping facilities and services, including
groceries, pharmacies, cleaners, and several food establishments. Therefore, staff
believes the request to eliminate guest spaces can be granted.

TENTATIVE MAP, CONDOMINIUM PERMIT, AND REQUIRED FINDINGS (SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE)
The project requires approval of a Tentative Map per Chapter 30, Article III of the
Municipal Code (the Subdivision Ordinance). The project site is comprised of two
contiguous parcels that would be combined to create a single lot totaling 13,629 square
feet, and subdivided to create 10 residential condominiums. Subdivision Ordinance
Section 30.42 requires the hearing authority to disapprove a tentative map if any of the
following findings can be made:

   1. The map, design or improvements of the proposed subdivision are inconsistent
      with the general or specific plans, the zoning ordinance, or subdivision
      improvement requirements.

      The proposed tentative map and associated improvements are consistent with
      Redwood City’s General Plan, Municipal Code, and Zoning Ordinance, and all
      applicable subdivision improvement requirements. The project would allow two
      parcels to become one parcel to create a more cohesive project. The exception
      to guest parking is allowed upon satisfaction of the conditions described in
      Zoning Code Section 30.4.

   2. The site is not physically suited for the proposed type or density of development.

      The project site is physically suited for the type and density of the proposed
      development. The site is located in an urbanized location. The site is generally
      flat and would have frontage and access from Woodside Road.

   3. The design or proposed improvements are likely to cause substantial
      environmental damage, or substantially and avoidably injure fish, wildlife or their
      habitat, or cause serious public health problems.

      The site is located within an urbanized setting and is currently developed with a
      commercial use, which would be replaced with the proposed residential
      development. The proposed tentative map and associated improvements would
      not pose substantial environmental damage, injure fish, wildlife, or habitat, or
      cause serious public health problems.

   4. The design or improvements of the proposed subdivision will conflict with
      essential public easements for access through, or use of, property within the
      proposed subdivision, unless acceptable alternate public easements will be
      provided.

      The proposed tentative map and associated improvements would not conflict
      with essential public easements for access through, or use of, property within the
      proposed subdivision. There are no existing public easements, and a proposed
      public easement would permit a public sidewalk on a portion of the property.

   5. The reasons submitted for the granting of any exceptions applied for do not
      comply with requirements for findings described in Section 30.69, and the
      tentative map is deemed not workable without the granting of such exceptions.

      No exceptions from subdivision requirements are requested.
   6. Such other findings of conflict with written public policy or with the public interest
      as the Planning Commission may determine.
        The proposed project does not conflict with any written public policy or with the
        public interest.

The Plan Review Committee reviewed the proposed Tentative Map and recommended
conditions of approval regarding the proposed subdivision. These conditions of approval
are included in Attachment 1 and serve as the Plan Review Committee’s
recommendations required by Section 30.40. Staff believes that the findings to
disapprove a Tentative Map cannot be made for the proposed tentative map and
associated improvements and, therefore, the tentative map could be approved.

The project requires approval of a Condominium Permit per R e d w o o d C i t y
M u n i c i p a l C o d e Chapter 30 (Subdivisions), Article XI ( C o n d o m i n i u m s ) .
Subdivision Ordinance Section 30.138 requires the Planning Commission to approve a
Condominium Permit if the requirements of Article XI have been complied with. The
project complies with applicable requirements of Article XI as shown in Table 2 below.

            Table 2: Summary of Project Chapter 30, Article XI Compliance

                    Regulations                                            Staff Analysis
Section 30.134 requires the project to comply with        The project complies with the zoning district
the requirements of the zoning district within which it   requirements and permitted uses as discussed
is located and with the permitted or conditional uses     above.
of such district.
Section 30.134 also requires every applicant for a        The subject project includes a Planned
Condominium Permit to file an application of a            Development Permit application.
Planned Development Permit prior to, or
concurrently with, the Condominium Permit.
Section 30.136 requires each condominium project          The project would provide separate meters. Prior
to contain:                                               to issuance of building permits, the project would
      • Separate gas, electricity and water meter         be required to demonstrate that it complies with
         and control valves so that each unit owner       applicable noise and energy insulation regulations
         may be individually billed for such              (condition of approval 49 and applicable building
         consumption.                                     code regulations).
      • Noise insulation.
      • Energy insulation.


GENERAL PLAN
When reviewing development applications, consistency with applicable General Plan
Goals and Policies shall also apply. The City Council of Redwood City adopted by
resolution a comprehensive update of the Redwood City General Plan on October 11,
2010. The New General Plan for Redwood City includes a land use map showing the
subject property with a land use designation of Mixed Use – Neighborhood. The Mixed
Use – Neighborhood Development Standards limit single use residential density to 40
dwelling units per acre and maximum height to 3 stories. The project would provide 32.6
dwelling units per acre, less than the maximum residential density. The project would
create a three-story, 37 feet four inch high building, which does not exceed the height
limit. Therefore, the project is consistent with the Mixed Use – Neighborhood land use
Development Standards.
Within the General Plan, the city’s vision for Woodside Road “J is an attractive,
walkable residential boulevard with mixed-use nodes that residents can easily walk to . .
. [and] is an ideal area for new residential development . . .” The vision states that “infill
residential development should incorporate landscaped setbacks while emphasizing the
pedestrian orientation of frontages in site and building design.” The project would
provide a residential development near a grocery store and bus stops, and provide new
street trees and widened sidewalks.

The project is subject to and complies with General Plan Goals, Polices, and Programs,
including, but not limited to:

§ Policy BE-1.8: Require that new projects are integrated as seamlessly as possible
  into surrounding development, creating extensions of urban fabric.
§ Policy BE-3.5: Require building and site frontages that define public streets with
  high-quality architectural and landscape design, including small-scale architectural
  elements and plane changes.
§ Goal BE-11: Create memorable and engaging retail, residential, and mixed-use
  destinations and paths along the corridors.
§ Policy BE-11.1: Improve the corridors to create a network of “complete streets” that
  emphasized pedestrian orientation and safety, public transit access, safe bicycle
  movement, and other improvements.
§ Policy BE-11.5: Improve public streetscapes along the corridors, including widened
  sidewalks and crosswalks, protected crosswalks, regular street tree planting, bus
  shelters and street furniture, and pedestrian-oriented street lighting.
§ Policy BE-11.7: Provide the appropriate density and intensity of land uses to
  facilitate high levels of transit use along corridors.
§ Policy BE-11.8: Ensure that buildings along corridors are sensitive to adjacent
  neighborhoods, providing adequate scale transitions.
§ Goal BE-13: Enhance the Woodside Road Corridor as an attractive residential
  boulevard with walkable mixed-use neighborhood centers, a pedestrian and transit-
  oriented character, and consistent design elements that unify its image.
§ Policy BE-13.4: Support new higher-density residential development on Woodside
  Road, while ensuring that new development is sensitive to adjacent single-unit
  residential neighborhoods.
§ Policy BE-23.7: Promote higher residential densities at locations near or within
  commercial, financial, and compatible employment, and also transportation corridors
  where neighborhood services are available.
§ Policy PS-13.10: Do not allow new residential or other noise sensitive land use
  development in noise impacted areas unless effective mitigation measures are
  incorporated into the project design to reduce outdoor activity area noise levels.
§ Program PS-61: Acoustical Analyses. Require acoustical analyses, as appropriate,
  for proposed stand-alone residential development within the 60dB CNEL or higher
  contour, as shown in Figure PS-12. Require incorporation of mitigation measures as
  necessary to reduce noise levels to levels deemed appropriate by the City.

The proposed project is a residential building that would provide for-sale housing in
close proximity to goods and services, and transportation. The site is within walking
distance to a grocery store, cafes, and restaurants, and services such as a salon and
dry cleaner. The site is near bus lines (routes 72, 275, and 278).
The project is designed with ground floor entries facing Woodside Road and one
driveway entrance to minimize the disruption of the pedestrian way. Pedestrian-scale
design features include a widened sidewalk, pedestrian site lighting, and street trees.
The project provides a higher density development along a corridor while respecting
existing adjacent multi-family development by providing step backs in the design.

Noise
The property in located in the noise contours for 60-65, 65-70, and 70-75 dB(A) (Figure
PS-11: 2010 Existing Noise Contours). The applicant provided a Noise Assessment in
compliance with General Plan policies and programs. The project includes design
measures to reduce the noise levels to acceptable levels and the project would be
conditioned to provide these design measures as part of the project’s construction
methods. The General Plan Public Safety Element and Figure PS-10: Redwood City
Noise Guidelines for Land Use Planning identifies noise levels of 60 dB to 75 dB for
Mixed-Use Districts to be conditionally acceptable. Conditionally acceptable states that
new development should be undertaken only after detailed analysis of noise reduction
requirements are made. In addition, the Public Safety Element identifies that Title 24 of
the California Health and Safety Code stipulates a maximum of 45 dBA CNEL for
interior residential noise levels.

The Noise Assessment found the interior noise exposure would be up to 48 dB with
existing and future traffic conditions, and the noise level produced by the Auto Pride Car
Wash dryers would be up to 41 dBA. The Noise Assessment recommended noise
control measures to achieve interior noise standards, which are incorporated as
condition of approval 60 in Attachment 1. Typical noise reduction building features that
would be used include installation of rated windows and doors, air-tight seals, and
perimeter caulking. With implementation of the recommended noise control measures,
the project would meet the General Plan conditionally acceptable 60 dB to 75 dB mixed-
Use noise level, and the Title 24 maximum 45 dBA interior noise level. Condition of
approval 60 (Attachment 1) requires certification by the applicant’s noise consultant that
the building permit plans are prepared to meet the applicable requirements and
standards of the General Plan Public Safety Element – Noise.

Affordable Housing
The project is subject to the City’s Affordable Housing Impact Fee (AHIF). This fee is
imposed on new residential and commercial developments to mitigate a project’s impact
on the need for affordable housing. The project’s AHIF is estimated to be $430,340.00.

ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
The City reviewed the project to determine whether further environmental review is
required under CEQA beyond the General Plan EIR (Clearinghouse #2010052034)
certified on October 11, 2010. The General Plan EIR evaluated, among other potential
impacts, traffic and noise. The General Plan for Redwood City designates the property
within the Mixed Use Neighborhood land use category. The project would provide 32.6
dwelling units per acre, less than the maximum 40 dwelling units per acre residential
density. The project would create a three story, 37 feet 1 ½ inch high building, which
does not exceed the three story height limit. Therefore, the project is consistent with the
Mixed Use neighborhood land use designation and General Plan for Redwood City in
terms of density and intensity.

Based on the discussion above and contained in the CEQA Exemption memo
(Attachment 2), no new impacts beyond what was identified in the General Plan EIR
were identified and the project does not require further environmental review under
CEQA Section 15183 “Projects Consistent with a Community Plan or Zoning.”

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
The City performed the following public notifications for this meeting:

•   Mailed notifications: A public hearing notice was mailed to property owners,
    occupants, and interested parties within a 300-foot radius from the property.
•   Newspaper Publication & Posting: A public hearing notice was published in the Daily
    News on January 6, 2017, and posted notice on the City Hall public notice board and
    on the project site’s publically-accessible frontage on Woodside Road at least 10
    days prior to the public hearing.
•   Online Engagement: City staff created a webpage for the project on the City’s
    website, with access to project plans, public notices, and agenda packets.

ALTERNATIVES
1. Defer action, and direct staff to provide additional CEQA analysis or project
   revisions.
2. Approve the Condominium Permit, Tentative Map, and Planned Community Permit,
   but modify the conditions of approval in Attachment 1.
3. Deny the Condominium Permit, Tentative Map, and Planned Community Permit.




Jennifer Savage                                  Steven Turner
Contract Senior Planner                          Planning Commission Liaison


ATTACHMENTS
1. Planning Commission Resolution No. 17-01
2. CEQA Exemption Memo
3. Project Plans

RELATED DOCUMENTS IN PLANNING DEPARTMENT
1. Zoning Code Article 54
2. Redwood City General Plan
3. Noise Assessment Study for the Planned Townhouse Development, Edward L. Pack
   Associates, Inc., January 12, 2017
                                      RESOLUTION NO. 17-01

       A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
       REDWOOD CITY APPROVING THE CONDOMINIUM PERMIT,
       PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PERMIT (PD2016-004), AND TENTATIVE
       MAP (TM2015-008) TO MERGE TWO PARCELS INTO A SINGLE
       DEVELOPABLE LOT AND CONSTRUCT 10 THREE-STORY, FOR-SALE
       RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS AT 910 WOODSIDE ROAD, BASED ON
       THE FINDINGS AND SUBJECT TO THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
       LISTED THEREIN

       WHEREAS, on November 17, 2015, the Applicant, Valera Fooksman, submitted
a request for a Tentative Map to merge two parcels into a single developable lot, and
Condominium Permit and Planned Development Permit to construct 10 three-story, for-
sale residential condominiums at 910 Woodside Road (the Project) which is within the
Mixed Use - Neighborhood zoning designation; and

      WHEREAS, on August 18, October 20, and November 3, 2016, the Architectural
Advisory Committee (AAC) held meetings to consider the proposed architecture and
voted 4-0 to recommend that the Planning Commission approve the project; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Redwood City is empowered
by the Redwood City Municipal Code to act upon applications for Condominium Permits;
and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Redwood City is empowered
by the Redwood City Municipal Code to act upon applications for Tentative Maps; and

      WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator of the City of Redwood City is empowered
by the Redwood City Municipal Code to act upon applications for Planned Development
Permits for a project area of less than one acre; and

      WHEREAS, the City’s policy is to bundle all project related applications and have
them acted upon by the highest approval authority, in this case the Planning Commission;
and

       WHEREAS, on January 17, 2017, the Planning Commission conducted a duly-
noticed public hearing, in accordance with all applicable requirements of the Subdivision
Map Act, and the Redwood City Municipal Code and Zoning Ordinance, to consider
approval of the Condominium Permit, Tentative Map Application TM2015-008, and
Planned Development Permit Application PD2016-004; and

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                              Page 1 of 20
       WHEREAS, at the January 17, 2017, public hearing, the Planning Commission
considered the Redwood City General Plan EIR (Clearinghouse #2010052034),staff
reports, oral and written, and testimony and materials presented by all those wishing
to be heard on this Project at the noticed public hearing on this matter; and

      WHEREAS, at the January 17, 2017, public hearing, the Planning Commission
considered and accepted the recommendation of the AAC regarding the Project's
proposed architecture; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Redwood City adopted by resolution a
comprehensive update of the Redwood City General Plan on October 11, 2010. The New
General Plan for Redwood City designates the property with Mixed Use Neighborhood
land use category. The Mixed Use Neighborhood Development Standards limit single use
residential density to 40 dwelling units per acre and maximum height to 3 stories. The
project would provide 32.6 dwelling units per acre, less than the maximum residential
density. The project would create a three story, 37 feet 1 ½ inch high building, which
does not exceed the height limit. Therefore, the project is consistent with the Mixed Use
neighborhood land use designation and General Plan for Redwood City in terms of
density and intensity; and

        WHEREAS, the Project does not require further environmental review under
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), pursuant to Public Resources Code
Section 21083.3 and CEQA Guidelines Section 15183. These sections describe
exemptions from additional environmental review projects which are consistent with
the development density established by existing zoning, community plan, or general
plan policies for which an EIR was certified, except as might be necessary to examine
whether there are project-specific significant effects which are peculiar to the project
or its site; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission determined that the proposed
Condominium Permit, Tentative Map and Planned Development Permit would further
the purposes of and appropriately implement the City of Redwood City General Plan,
and applicable provisions of the Redwood City Municipal Code and Zoning
Ordinance.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1. The Planning Commission, having independently heard, considered
and weighed all the evidence in the record, including evidence presented by City staff,
the Applicant, and members of the public, and being fully informed of the Project, finds

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                         Page 2 of 20
that the above recitals are accurate and constitute findings in this matter and, together
with the Staff Report and the application materials, including without limitation the
development plans, and all other documents, reports, studies, memoranda, maps, oral
and written testimony, and materials in the City's file for the applications and the Project,
and all adopted City planning documents relating to the Project and the property including
the City's General Plan, General Plan EIR, the Redwood City Municipal Code, the
Redwood City Zoning Ordinance, other applicable City laws and regulations, and all
associated approved and certified environmental documents, have together served as an
adequate and appropriate evidentiary basis for the findings and actions set forth in this
Resolution.

    Section 2. CEQA: In the exercise of its independent judgment, the Planning
Commission finds that:

            a. The Planning Commission has reviewed and analyzed information in the
               entire record and has considered such information, including the written and
               oral comments received at the public hearing, prior to acting upon or
               approving the Project.
            b. Based on substantial evidence in the record, the proposed Project is within
               the scope of the previously approved General Plan and is adequately
               described in the General Plan EIR for purposes of CEQA. The mitigation
               measures and Statement of Overriding Considerations associated with
               certification of the General Plan EIR address the environmental effects of
               the Project. Accordingly, with the approval of this Project, all applicable
               mitigation measures and the Statement of Overriding Considerations are
               hereby reconfirmed and readopted.
            c. As set forth in CEQA Guidelines section 15183, subdivisions (a) and (b),
               the proposed Project is consistent with the Redwood City General Plan,
               which establishes development density consistent with the proposed
               development density associated with the Project. Further, there are no
               environmental effects which are peculiar to the project or its site, nor are
               there any new significant effects that were not already identified and
               analyzed in the certified EIR, nor are there any potentially significant off-site
               impacts or cumulative impacts that were not already identified and analyzed
               in the certified EIR, nor is there any new information which was not known
               at the time of the certification of the EIR that identifies any significant effects
               which will have a more severe adverse impact than discussed in the
               certified EIR. Further, as set forth in subdivision (d) of CEQA Guidelines
               section 15183, the proposed Project is consistent with the General Plan,
               and an EIR was prepared for the General Plan. For these reasons, no
               further environmental review is required pursuant to CEQA.
            d. Pursuant to Guidelines section 15091(e), the documents and other
               materials that constitute the record of proceedings upon which the Planning
               Commission has based its decision are located in and may be obtained

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                              Page 3 of 20
                from, the Office of the City Clerk at 1017 Middlefield Road, Redwood City
                California. The City Clerk is the custodian of records for all matters before
                the City.

      Section 3.   Tentative Map TM2015-008: In the exercise of its independent
judgment, the Planning Commission finds that Tentative Map TM2015-008 does not
need to be denied pursuant to Section 30.42 of the City’s Municipal Code because:

            a. The map, design or improvements of the proposed subdivision are
               consistent with Redwood City’s General Plan, Municipal Code, and Zoning
               Ordinance, and all applicable subdivision improvements requirements. The
               project would allow two parcels to become one parcel to create a more
               cohesive project.
            b. The site is physically suited for the proposed type or density of
               development. The site is located in an urbanized location. The site is
               generally flat and would have frontage and access from Woodside Road.
            c. The design or proposed improvements would not cause substantial
               environmental damage, or substantially and avoidably injure fish, wildlife or
               their habitat, or cause serious public health problems.
            d. The design or improvements of the proposed subdivision would not conflict
               with essential public easements for access through, or use of, property
               within the proposed subdivision in that there are no existing public
               easements, and a proposed public easement would permit a public
               sidewalk a portion of the property. Wider sidewalks and improvements
               would be constructed along Woodside Road enhancing the pedestrian
               experience.
            e. No exceptions from subdivision requirements are requested and the
               tentative map is workable without the granting of exceptions.
            f. The proposed project does not conflict with any written public policy or with
               the public interest.

       Section 4. Tentative Map TM2015-008: The Planning Commission finds that the
proposed subdivision, together with the provisions for its design and improvement, is
consistent with the general plan as set forth in the staff report.

      Section 5.    Condominium Permit TM2015-008: In the exercise of its
independent judgment, the Planning Commission finds that the Project as proposed
complies with the requirements of Article XI of the Subdivision Ordinance.

      Section 6.  Planned Development Permit PD2016-004: In the exercise of its
independent judgment, the Planning Commission finds that:
   • The proposed project appropriately furthers the objectives of Article 46 of the
      Zoning Ordinance as follows:
         o The project promotes the most appropriate use of the site in that it would
ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                            Page 4 of 20
                provide a moderate-density residential project with sensitivity to adjacent
                uses and street-orientated design.
              o The project is innovative in that it would provide Redwood City’s first green
                roof.
              o The project provides a functional and aesthetic parking design in that one
                vehicular access covered by floor area results in less visible parking and
                less asphalt exposed to reflect heat from the sun.
     •    The project would exceed the standards typically required for new developments
          through provision of a green roof and varied and high quality architectural details.

       Section 7.   The Condominium Permit, Tentative Map, and Planned
Development Permit are hereby approved based on the Planning Commission's
consideration and reliance on the CEQA determination and in accordance with the
plans, details and descriptions contained therein, attached hereto and incorporated
herein by reference, and subject to the following Conditions of Approval:

General and Ongoing Conditions:
Project Conformance

1.       Substantial Conformity – All improvements shall substantially conform to the project
         plans prepared by Nina Nazarov, Architect, dated December 14, 2016, and related
         information submitted by the Applicant, on file with the Community Development
         Department. [COA][PLANNING]

2.       Approval Letter & Conditions in Building Permit Plans – This Resolution, including
         the conditions of approval, shall be printed on the first page of the building permit plans.
         [COA][PLANNING]

3.       Use – The project approval is for 10 three-story, for-sale residential condominiums.
         Changes to the approved use require review and approval by the City.
         [COA][PLANNING]

Fees

The following fees shall be paid in full prior to issuance of the building permit unless otherwise
described below.

4.       Transportation Impact Fee – Pay a Traffic Impact Fee for the net new trips resulting
         from the proposed project, estimated at $9,920.00. [SDR] [ENGINEERING]

5.       Parks Impact Fee – Pay a Parks Impact Fee for the new dwelling units resulting from
         the proposed project, estimated at $106,885.30. [SDR][PARKS]

6.       Affordable Housing Impact Fee – Pay an Affordable Housing Impact Fee estimated at
         $480,340.00 for the net new residential units from the proposed project.
         [SDR][HOUSING]

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                                Page 5 of 20
7.    School Impact Fee – For residential additions greater than 500 square feet and new
      commercial or industrial construction, pay a School Impact Fee to the Sequoia Union
      High School District. Information regarding this fee may be obtained by contacting the
      Sequoia Union High School District at (650) 369-1411. [SDR][SCHOOL DISTRICT]

8.    Water and Sewer Fees – Pay applicable water, recycled water, and wastewater-related
      fees as outlined on the City’s website. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

9.    Notice Of Fees Protest – The applicant may protest any fees, dedications, reservations,
      or other exactions imposed by the City as part of the approval or as a condition of
      approval of this development. Per California Government Code Section 66020, this 90-
      day protest period has begun as of the date of the approval of these applications.
      [SDR][OFFICE OF THE CITY ATTORNEY]

Landscaping and Site Improvement

10. Water-Efficient Landscaping – Provide a landscaping and irrigation plan conforming to
    the California Water-Efficient Landscape Ordinance (AB 1881), including an automatic
    irrigation system (drip, micro-spray, or bubblers) with a rain sensor, and show these
    measures on the building permit plans. [COA][PLANNING]

11. Tree Protection – Provide tree protection measures for ordinance-sized trees near the
    project and show these measures on the building permit plans. [COA][PLANNING]

12. Tree Removal Permit – Obtain a Tree Removal Permit for the removal and tree trimming
    of all ordinance-size trees (number, type and location) defined within the City’s Tree
    Preservation Ordinance prior to building permit issuance. [SDR][PLANNING]

13. Tree Removal & Trimming – The applicant shall hire a qualified biologist to conduct a
    survey for nesting birds prior to any tree removal or trimming activities scheduled to take
    place during breeding season (February 15 to August 31). The survey shall be submitted
    to the City Planning Division prior to any tree removals. [COA][PLANNING]

14. Street Trees – A total of four (24-inch box) street trees shall be planted along Woodside
    Road frontage. The tree species and location will be determined by the City Landscape
    Architect. These improvements shall be included as part of the building permit submittal
    package. Newly planted trees shall be both irrigated and maintained by the applicant.
    [SDR][PLANNING]

15. Stormwater Runoff – Post-construction runoff into the storm drain shall not exceed pre-
    construction runoff levels. The applicant’s design professional shall evaluate the project’s
    impact to the City’s storm drainage system and shall substantiate their conclusions with
    drainage calculations to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. The project shall be
    designed in conformance with the Drainage Guidelines for Commercial Development.
    [SDR] [ENGINEERING]

16. Exterior Lighting – Provide a lighting plan for proposed exterior lighting, including cut
    sheets, a photometric site plan demonstrating light levels and a diagram showing light
    spillover. This information shall be included in the building permit plans. New light
ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                            Page 6 of 20
      sources must not introduce glare or light effects that spill off the property.
      [COA][PLANNING]

17. Site Grading – Site grading shall be designed to allow for overland release to the street.
    No stormwater from the project site shall be allowed to run off onto adjacent private
    properties. [SDR] [ENGINEERING]

18. Site Drainage – As currently designed on the Tentative Map, the site grading slopes
    away from the building at 2% toward the adjacent properties, and then there is a concrete
    curb around the perimeter of the site in order to prevent stormwater from running off to
    the adjacent properties. If the rainfall rate on the site is higher than the infiltration rate
    available in the previous pavers, or if the pervious pavers are clogged, there will be
    ponding on the pervious pavers within the main walkway to the front doors of each of the
    units. The fact that this ponding will occur shall be included in the disclosures for the
    property so that potential buyers are aware. [COA][ENGINEERING]

19. Project Benchmark – The project shall tie to a City Standard benchmark. The
    benchmark information shall be identified on the cover sheet of the improvement plans,
    and the elevations shall be on the NAVD88 datum. [SDR] [ENGINEERING]

20. Bicycle Facilities – The project shall provide onsite bicycle lockers for a minimum
    capacity of 4 bicycles. The project shall also provide two bike racks on the new sidewalk.
    These facilities shall be shown on the building permit plans. [COA][ENGINEERING]

21. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations – Provide for 2 onsite parking spaces equipped
    with electrical vehicle (EV) charging stations and demonstrate this on the building permit
    plans. [COA][ENGINEERING]

22. Screening for Backflow Prevention Device – Screening shall be horizontal redwood
    siding to match the horizontal redwood siding on the structure, and shall be limited to
    three feet in height. If the backflow prevention device is greater than three feet in height,
    the device shall be relocated and/or screened pursuant to zoning regulations.
    [COA][PLANNING]

Final Map

23. Final Map – Obtain approval and record a Final Map prior to building permit issuance.
    All final maps shall include the lot configuration and proposed easements and conform
    to the Subdivision Map Act and Chapter 30 of the Municipal Code.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

24. Public Access Easement – The map shall include a public access easement for any
    portions of the required 12-foot sidewalk width that extend into the private property.
    [COA][ENGINEERING]

25. Agreements – Prior to Final Map approval, enter into the following agreements in a form
    acceptable to the City Attorney and the Community Development Director:
    [COA][ENGINEERING]


ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                             Page 7 of 20
            a. A Landscape Maintenance Agreement for all assigned landscape areas in
               public rights of way, easements, and/or on property in which the City holds an
               interest to be maintained. Maintenance items shall include, but are not limited
               to, planting trees, shrubs, flowers, grass and all appurtenances including
               irrigation systems and pedestrian scale lighting.
            b. A Stormwater Treatment Measures Maintenance Agreement for all on-site
               stormwater treatment measures associated with the project, including but not
               limited to the green roof and pervious pavers. The agreement shall include an
               operations and maintenance plan for all stormwater treatment measures, self-
               treating areas, and/or self-retaining areas.
            c. An Improvement Agreement to guarantee the installation of all improvements
               required of the project and to provide for payment of all City inspection and plan
               check charges associated with the installation of public and private
               improvements, including, but not limited to, streets, sanitary sewers, water,
               storm drains and street lights.
            d. CC&Rs including provisions for maintenance of and access to shared utilities,
               stormwater treatment facilities, surface improvements, and common areas, and
               an estimate of costs and proposed level of maintenance for each of the activities
               identified. All property owners must be members. [COA][PLANNING]

Engineering Reports and Surveys

26. Geotechnical Report – Include a geotechnical field review and reports for all grading
    work, prepared by a licensed geotechnical engineer and in conformance with
    Engineering Standards, Volumes II & III, CBC, and other State regulations. The
    geotechnical report shall include recommendations regarding the use of pervious pavers,
    including the recommended pavement section and any subdrain system. The report shall
    specifically address the use of pervious pavers near the foundations of the new building
    and the existing buildings on adjacent properties without the use of an impermeable liner.
    This shall be submitted as part of the building permit application. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

27. As-Builts – Provide “as-built” or “record” drawings, to be submitted in paper, PDF and
    AutoCAD formats prior to project sign-off. [COA][ENGINEERING]

Utility Infrastructure Improvements

28. Conformance with the City’s Engineering Standards – All public improvements shall
    be designed and constructed in accordance with the City’s Engineering Standards.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

29. Encroachment Permits – Obtain an Encroachment Permit from the Engineering and
    Transportation Division for work listed below. This permit shall be obtained prior to the
    commencement of construction of the road, utilities, or any site improvements.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]
         a. Work in the City public right-of-way, easements or property in which the City
            holds an interest.


ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                             Page 8 of 20
            b. Work requiring a grading permit. Grading permits require a Plot and Finished
               Grading Plan prepared by a California-registered Civil Engineer.
            c. Work requiring on-site shoring which affects the public right of way.
            d. Work using the public right-of-way for any fixed structure (awnings, roof
               overhangs, fixed planters, etc.). Insurance, meeting the City’s standards, is
               required. This permit will be recorded against the property.

30. Sewer Capacity – Prior to encroachment permit issuance, submit to the City, and obtain
    approval of, an evaluation and report prepared by a licensed engineer demonstrating
    that the existing sewer mains have sufficient capacity for the project. The study shall
    consider existing, project, other approved projects, and applications currently under
    review in determining the needed capacity. If the existing sewer main is less than 6” in
    size, or is in any other way not sufficient as determined by the City Engineer, applicant
    shall, as part of the Project, construct and install new sewer mains sufficient to meet such
    requirements, in accordance with the City's Engineering standards and as directed by
    the City Engineer to the City Engineer's satisfaction. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

31. Sewer Lateral Limit – The project is limited to one sewer lateral per parcel.
    [COA][ENGINEERING]

32.   Sewer Lateral Size – For multi-family dwellings, sewer laterals less than 4” shall be
      upgraded to a minimum 6” size. [COA] [ENGINEERING]

33.    Water Mains – Prior to encroachment permit issuance, submit to City, and obtain
       approval of, an evaluation and report, prepared by a licensed engineer, in conformance
       with the City's Engineering Standards, demonstrating that the proposed water main
       meets the domestic and fire flow requirements in accordance with City Code Section
       38.26 and the International Fire Code. If the existing water main is less than 6” in size,
       or is in any other way not sufficient as determined by the City Engineer, applicant shall,
       as part of the Project, construct and install new water mains sufficient to meet such
       requirements, in accordance with the City's Engineering Standards and as directed by
       the City Engineer. New water mains shall be 8” minimum in size and extend across
       the entire property frontage, from the nearest point of connection to an existing 6” or
       larger water main.[SDR][ENGINEERING]

34. Water Meters – The project is limited to four water meters - one “master” water meter
    for domestic water service, one “master” water meter for the dual plumbed recycled water
    service, one meter for the irrigation water service, and a small water meter on the fire
    service backflow preventer. Any metering for individual units must be accomplished by
    private sub-meters within the property. [COA][ENGINEERING]

35. Recycled Water Facilities – Recycled water (purple pipe) facilities shall be provided
    and designed in accordance with Engineering Standards for dual plumbing, irrigation,
    and other warranted uses per the Recycled Water Ordinance, Chapter 38. Services that
    are to be supplied by recycled water (either at the time of project completion or at a future
    date) shall be designed to properly function at the design pressure required by
    Engineering. Upon a final determination by the City that recycled water is available for


ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                             Page 9 of 20
      the property, the applicant shall connect the project to the recycled water system.
      [SDR][ENGINEERING]

36. Dual Plumbing Report - The applicant shall hire an engineer licensed in California and
    experienced in the field of wastewater treatment to prepare a report pursuant to California
    Water Code section 13522.5 and in accordance with California Code of Regulations
    sections 60314 and 60323 (found within Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3). The report shall
    be submitted with the first building submittal, and will be routed to the Public Works
    Department for review and coordination. [COA][ENGINEERING]

37. Backflow Protection – Backflow protection on all water services is required. The
    backflow preventer shall be above grade and located on private property, accessible to
    the Public Works division for testing. [COA][ENGINEERING]

38. Fire Flow – The Project shall meet fire flow requirements as established by the Fire
    Department which are based on the Fire Code. Fire flow tests are typically performed
    during the preliminary design phase but must be completed prior to submittal of final
    design. Applicant shall contact the Fire Department for fire flow requirements, and then
    submit a written fire flow test request to Engineering. [COA][ENGINEERING]

39. C3 Requirements – Plans shall be designed to meet C3 requirements of the Municipal
    Regional Permit (MRP) NPDES Permit CAS612008 and be in compliance with San
    Mateo County C.3 Stormwater Technical Guidance. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

            a. Treatment Controls – Treatment measures to be shown on final improvement
               or grading plans shall not differ materially from the treatment measures
               presented on the project’s Tentative Map, approved on January 17, 2017,
               without written approval from the Engineering Department.
            b. Self-Treating and Self-Retaining Areas – The improvement plans shall
               include a Drainage Area Management Plan, which shall clearly indicate which
               areas of the site are intended to be self-treating and which are intended to be
               self-retaining. The plan shall include adequate information to confirm that the
               areas are designed in accordance with the C.3 Stormwater Technical Guidance
               for each of those designated types.
                i. In order to be considered a self-treating area, the void space in the
                   subbase/base layer (for pervious pavers) or planting media (green roof)
                   below the subdrain must have sufficient capacity in the void space to store
                   the MRP C.3.d volume of rainfall runoff for the area of pervious pavers or
                   green roof. Self-treating areas may not accept runoff from other impervious
                   areas.
                ii. In order to be considered a self-retaining area, the subbase/base layer (for
                    pervious pavers) or planting media (green roof) below the subdrain must
                    have sufficient capacity in the void space to store the MRP C.3.d volume of
                    runoff for both the area of pervious paving/green roof and the area that
                    drains to it; however, the self-retaining area may not accept runoff from an
                    area of impervious surface that has a surface area of more than two times
                    the surface area of the pervious paving/green roof area. Any inlets or

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                             Page 10 of 20
                    overflow drains are installed in the self-retaining area, they must be set at
                    an elevation high enough to allow ponding throughout the entire surface of
                    the self-retaining area.
            c. Green Roof – The green roof shall be designed in accordance with section 6.8
               of the C.3 Technical Guidance.
                 i. The planting media shall be sufficiently deep to support the long-term health
                    of the vegetation selected for the green roof, as specified by the landscape
                    architect.
                 ii. The green roof shall be irrigated.
                 iii. The design and installation of the green roof system shall be completed by
                      an established vendor.
            d. Pervious Pavers – The pervious pavers shall be designed in accordance with
               section 6.6 of the C.3 Technical Guidance.
            e. Small Project – The project is planning to utilize self-treating and/or self-
               retaining areas to bring the impervious surface of the site below the C.3
               “Regulated Projects” threshold of 10,000 SF. Because the project is still
               creating over 2,500 SF of impervious area, it will qualify as a “small project”
               under the Municipal Regional Permit (MRP) and shall incorporate at least one
               of the site design measures required for small projects in section C.3.i of the
               MRP.
            f.   Treatment Measure Inspection – Applicant shall coordinate installation of
                 stormwater treatment measures with the municipality, shall arrange to have the
                 City’s designated inspector present at the time of installation, and shall have the
                 City’s designated inspector complete a final inspection of installed stormwater
                 treatment measure immediately after installation is complete.
            g. Downspouts – Downspout locations shall be shown on improvement plans in
               accordance with the City’s Engineering Standards.

40. Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) – Applicant shall prepare a SWMP that
    includes, at a minimum, exhibit(s) showing drainage areas and location of Low Impact
    Development (LID) treatment measures; total project site area and total area of land
    disturbed; total new and/or replaced impervious area; treatment measures and hydraulic
    sizing calculations; a listing of source control and site design measures to be
    implemented at the site; saturated hydraulic conductivity rate(s) at relevant locations or
    hydrologic soil type (A, B, C or D) and source of information; elevation of high seasonal
    groundwater table; and a brief summary of how the project is complying with Provision
    C.3 of the MRP. [COA][ENGINEERING]

41. Construction General Permit – For construction activity resulting in a land disturbance
    of one acre or more, applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the State Water
    Resources Control Board under the Construction Activities Storm Water General Permit
    (General Permit). The NOI indicates the applicant’s intent to comply with the San Mateo
    Countywide Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program, including a Stormwater Pollution
    Prevention Plan (SWPPP). [SDR] [ENGINEERING]

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                               Page 11 of 20
42. Stormwater BMPs – Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program Best Management
    Practices (BMPs) for construction shall be implemented to protect water quality, in
    accordance with the approved Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). BMP
    plan sheets are available electronically for inserting into project plans.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

Street Infrastructure Improvements

43. Repair or Replace Street Infrastructure – Restore streets surrounding the project site
    to the satisfaction of the City Engineer at project completion. When this requires
    additional pavement restoration, the Engineer shall approve the preferred layout of
    pavement markings. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

Fire and Safety

44.    Relevant Safety Codes – The project shall comply with all applicable Building, Fire and
       Safety codes. [SDR][BUILDING]

45. Addressing and Access – The following requirements apply: [COA][FIRE]

           a. Addresses must be logical, sequential numbers, i.e. First Floor 101, 102, 103,
              Second Floor 202, 203, 204, as opposed to F303, G401, etc.

           b. Floor plan maps shall be submitted with unit numbers at all entrances, excluding
              fire exits.

           c. Provide a key pad with 24 hour access code for public safety personnel at the
              main entrance, as opposed to just RFID readers or similar devices

Construction-Related Activities

46. Verification for Dimensions – All dimensions, including building location on the site,
    setbacks, building height, etc. shall be verified by a licensed surveyor. A survey report
    shall be provided to the Building Inspector for review and approval. [COA][BUILDING]

47. Sales and Use Taxes – Applicant shall use good faith efforts to register with the Board
    of Equalization to create an ID prior to project construction and operation. This maximizes
    the City’s allocation of sales and use taxes associated with project construction. Contact
    Nancy       Murguia,       Finance       Department,       at    (650)     780-7097      or
    nmurguia@redwoodcity.org. [COA][FINANCE]

48. Hours of Construction – On-Site Construction activity is permitted between 7:00 a.m.
    and 8:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, except as permitted on weekends by the Building
    Official, and shall adhere to the City’s Noise Ordinance. If possible, the noisiest
    construction activities would be scheduled for daytime hours when the ambient noise
    levels are highest. [SDR][BUILDING]

49. Construction Sign - Prior to the start of any construction work, including demolition,
    install at least one 36” x 48” (minimum) construction sign in a visible location along the
ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                            Page 12 of 20
      project frontage for the duration of construction. The sign shall include, at minimum, the
      following information: project name & address, elevation or rendering, construction
      manager (name, phone number), anticipated completion (season, year), and the City’s
      permitting website http://permits.redwoodcity.org [COA][PLANNING]

50. Pre-Construction – After City permits are issued, but prior to start of construction,
    schedule a pre-construction meeting with Engineering, Building, Fire, and Planning staff
    to discuss the inspection process and requirements for construction and site work. The
    applicant shall arrange for the attendance of the owner, developer, construction
    manager, contractor, and all subcontractors who are responsible for grading and erosion
    and sedimentation protection controls.

51. Construction Management and Staging – Prior to encroachment permit issuance,
    submit a construction parking management plan, which shall outline the number of
    construction workers by phase, phase duration, where parking will be located for each
    phase. Construction parking, material storage, equipment, or other construction-related
    uses are not allowed within the City right of way without prior approval from the City
    Engineer. [COA][ENGINEERING]

52. Lane Closures – Traffic control for lane closures shall conform to the Work Area Traffic
    Control Handbook. Street closures require submission of traffic control plans and
    approval in advance. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

53. Winterizing – If construction is not complete by the start of the wet season (October 1
    through April 30), implement a winterization program to minimize the potential for erosion
    and sedimentation. As appropriate to the site and status of construction, winterization
    requirements shall include inspecting/maintaining/cleaning all soil erosion and
    sedimentation controls prior to, during, and immediately after each storm event;
    stabilizing disturbed soils through temporary or permanent seeding, mulching, matting,
    tarping or other physical means; rocking unpaved vehicle access to limit dispersion of
    much onto public right-of-way; and covering/tarping stored construction materials, fuels,
    and other chemicals. Plans to include proposed measures to prevent erosion and
    polluted runoff from all site conditions shall be submitted for approval by CDD prior to
    beginning construction. As site conditions warrant, the City Engineer may direct the
    applicant to implement additional winterization requirements. [COA][ENGINEERING]

54. Grading – Grading shall be performed in accordance with the City’s Engineering
    Standards. Soil or other construction materials shall not be stockpiled in the public right-
    of-way. Submit cut/fill volumes (CY) for all soils to be imported to or exported from the
    site. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

55. Monitoring – The Soils Engineer shall conduct continuous site inspections during
    trenching and backfill operations at the applicant’s expense. The Soils Engineer shall
    take compaction tests and submit the results to Engineering & Construction.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

56. Materials Mock-Up – Prior to final foundation inspection, prepare a mock-up that is
    outdoors, readily accessible, and will remain intact until the project has reached
    substantial completion. The mock-up should include all project colors and materials,
ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                            Page 13 of 20
      windows for the base and top, balconies, lighting, and architectural details, as well as
      construction details, such as the weep screed, to understand how the design addresses
      them. Then schedule a mock-up meeting with the Planning and Building Departments
      for final review and approval of the project details. Submit an updated colors and
      materials board or details if any changes are made as a result of the mock-up meeting.
      [COA][PLANNING]

57. Certification Letters – Prior to final inspection, submit certification letters from the
    following architects verifying that the project, as constructed, complies with approved
    plans. After the certification letter has been submitted, the project planner will also
    confirm substantial compliance with the approved plans during the scheduled final
    inspection. [COA][PLANNING]:

                a. Project Landscape Architect verifying substantial conformance with the
                   approved landscape plan, including species, size, quantity, and location of
                   the approved trees, shrubs, and groundcover. It shall also verify landscape
                   lighting, fencing, irrigation, and other details as applicable.
                b. Project Architect verifying substantial conformance with the approved
                   elevations, colors, materials, exterior light fixtures, and architectural details.

58. Construction Noise – The applicant shall comply with the following construction-period
    noise abatement measures: [SDR][BUILDING]

                a. Construction Plan. Prepare a detailed construction plan identifying the
                   schedule for major noise-generating construction activities. The construction
                   plan shall identify a procedure for coordination with nearby noise-sensitive
                   facilities so that construction activities and the event schedule can be
                   scheduled to minimize noise disturbance. This plan shall be provided to all
                   noise-sensitive land uses within 500 feet of the construction site.

                b. Construction Equipment Mufflers and Maintenance. Equip all internal
                   combustion engine-driven equipment with intake and exhaust mufflers that
                   are in good condition and appropriate for the equipment.
                c. Equipment Locations. Locate stationary noise-generating equipment
                   required on construction project sites as far as possible from sensitive
                   receptors when sensitive receptors adjoin or are near a construction project
                   site.

                d. Quiet Equipment Selection. Use quiet construction equipment, particularly
                   air compressors, wherever feasible.

                e. Temporary Barriers. Construct solid plywood fences around construction
                   sites adjacent to residences, operational businesses, or noise-sensitive land
                   uses.

                f.   Temporary Noise Blankets. Temporary noise control blanket barriers should
                     be erected along building facades of construction sites to attenuate noise


ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                               Page 14 of 20
                     from elevated activities if noise conflicts cannot be resolved by scheduling.
                     (Noise control blanket barriers can be rented and quickly erected.)

                g. Noise Disturbance Coordinator. For projects that would last over one year
                   in duration, the City may choose to require project designation of a "Noise
                   Disturbance Coordinator" who would be responsible for responding to any
                   local complaints about construction noise. The Disturbance Coordinator
                   would determine the cause of the noise complaint (e.g., starting too early,
                   bad muffler, etc.) and institute reasonable measures to correct the problem.
                   Post in a conspicuous location a telephone number for the Disturbance
                   Coordinator at the construction site and include it in the notice sent to
                   neighbors regarding the construction schedule. (The project sponsor should
                   be responsible for designating a Noise Disturbance Coordinator, posting the
                   phone number, and providing construction schedule notices. The Noise
                   Disturbance Coordinator would work directly with an assigned City staff
                   member.)

59. Construction Air Emissions – The applicant shall comply with the following measures
    to reduce air emissions during construction:[SDR][BUILDING]

                a. Water all exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles,
                   graded areas, and unpaved access roads) two times per day.

                b. Cover all haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site.

                c. Remove all visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads using wet
                   power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. Dry power sweeping
                   is prohibited.

                d. Limit speeds of all vehicle on unpaved roads to 15 mph.

                e. Pave all roadways, driveways, and sidewalks as soon as possible. Building
                   pads shall be laid as soon as possible after grading unless seeding or soil
                   binders are used.

                f.   Minimize idling times either by shutting equipment off when not in use or
                     reducing the maximum idling time to 5 minutes (as required by the California
                     airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of
                     Regulations [CCR]). Provide clear signage for construction workers at all
                     access points.

                g. Maintain and properly tune all construction equipment in accordance with
                   manufacturer‘s specifications. All equipment shall be checked by a certified
                   visible emissions evaluator.

                h. Post a publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact
                   at the lead agency regarding dust complaints. This person shall respond and


ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                              Page 15 of 20
                    take corrective action within 48 hours. The Air District‘s phone number shall
                    also be visible to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.

60. Noise and Vibration – The applicant shall incorporate the following within the
    construction drawings per the site-specific Noise Assessment Study for the Planned
    Townhouse Development, Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc., May 12, 2016
    [SDR][PLANNING]

                a. The following additional precautionary measures are required to assure the
                   greatest potential for exterior-to-interior noise attenuation by the
                   recommended mitigation measures. These measures apply at those units
                   where closed windows are required.
                        i. If any penetrations in the building shell are required for vents, piping,
                           conduit, etc., sound leakage around these penetrations can be
                           controlled by sealing all cracks and clearance spaces with a non-
                           hardening caulking compound.
                       ii. Ventilation openings shall not compromise the acoustical integrity of
                           the building shell.
                b. Maintain closed at all times all windows and glass doors of the project facing
                   north, east or south at all floors. Install windows and glass doors rated
                   minimum Sound Transmission Class (STC) 34 at Units 1, 2, 9 and 10. Install
                   windows and glass doors rated minimum STC 31 at Units 3-8, as shown on
                   Figure 1. Provide some type of mechanical ventilation per the Mechanical
                   Code requirements. The project entry doors are exempt from these
                   recommendations.
                c. When windows are kept closed for noise control, they are to be operable, as
                   the requirement does not imply a “fixed” condition. In addition, some form of
                   mechanical ventilation which brings in fresh air from the outside of the unit
                   must be provided. All other windows of the development and all bathroom
                   windows may use any type of glazing and may be kept open as desired.
                d. In addition to the required STC ratings, the windows and glass doors shall
                   be installed in an acoustically-effective manner. To achieve an acoustically-
                   effective window and glass door construction, the sliding window and glass
                   door panels must form an air-tight seal when in the closed position and the
                   window and glass door frames must be caulked to the wall opening around
                   their entire perimeter with a non-hardening caulking compound to prevent
                   sound infiltration.
                e. The acoustical test report of all sound rated windows and glass doors should
                   be reviewed be a qualified acoustician to ensure that the chosen windows
                   and glass doors will adequately reduce traffic noise to acceptable levels.
                   Certification Letter – Prior to issuance of building permits, the applicant shall
                   submit a certification letter from the acoustical consultant verifying that the
                   building permit plans, as proposed, comply with the measures required by
                   the Noise Assessment Study for the Planned Townhouse Development,
                   Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc., May 12, 2016 and the applicable
                   requirements and standards of the General Plan Public Safety Element –
                   Noise. The applicant shall submit a subsequent Noise Assessment Study
                   and/or modify the building permit plans to meet the applicable requirements

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                              Page 16 of 20
                    and standards of the General Plan Public Safety Element – Noise if
                    determined necessary by the Director of Community Development.

61. Work Stoppage for Sensitive Cultural Resources – In the event sensitive cultural
    resources are identified, work shall stop.

                a. If deposits of prehistoric or historic archeological materials are encountered
                   during project construction activities, all work within an appropriate buffer
                   area around the discovery shall be stopped and a qualified archeologist
                   meeting federal criteria under 36 CFR 61 shall be contacted to assess the
                   deposit(s) and make recommendations.

                b. If deposits of prehistoric or historic archeological materials cannot be
                   avoided by project activities, the City Planning, Housing, and Economic
                   Development Department shall confirm that the project applicant(s) have
                   retained a qualified archaeologist to evaluate the potential historic
                   significance of the resource(s). If the deposits are determined to be
                   nonsignificant by a qualified archeologist, avoidance is not necessary. If the
                   deposits are determined to be significant by the qualified archeologist, the
                   resources shall be avoided if feasible. If avoidance is not feasible, project
                   impacts shall be mitigated in accordance with the recommendations of the
                   qualified archaeologist, in coordination with the City Planning, Housing, and
                   Economic Development Department and CEQA Guidelines Section15126.4
                   (b)(3)(C), which requires implementation of a data recovery plan.

                c. The data recovery plan shall include provisions for adequately recovering all
                   scientifically consequential information from and about any discovered
                   archeological materials and include recommendations for the treatment of
                   these resources. In-place preservation of the archeological resource is the
                   preferred manner of mitigating potential impacts, as it maintains the
                   relationship between the resource and the archeological context. In place
                   preservation also reduces the potential for conflicts with the religious or
                   cultural values of groups associated with the resource. Other mitigation
                   options include, but are not limited to, the full or partial removal and curation
                   of the resource.

                d. The City Planning, Housing, and Economic Development Department shall
                   confirm that the project applicant(s) have retained a qualified archeologist
                   for the preparation and implementation of the data recovery plan, which shall
                   be conducted by prior to any additional earth-moving activities in the area of
                   the resource. The recovery plan shall be submitted to the project applicant,
                   the City Planning, Housing, and Economic Development Department, and
                   the NWIC. Once the recovery plan is reviewed and approved by the City
                   Planning, Housing, and Economic Development Department and any
                   appropriate resource recovery completed, project construction activity within
                   the area of the find may resume. A data recovery plan shall not be required
                   for resources that have been deemed by the NWIC as adequately recorded
                   and recovered by studies already completed. (General Plan Mitigation
                   Measure 4.5-1a) [SDR][PLANNING]
ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                              Page 17 of 20
62. Training for Cultural Resources – Prior to the issuance of grading permits within the
    plan area, the City Planning, Housing, and Economic Development Department shall
    confirm that any development applicant has required all construction crews to undergo
    adequate training for the identification of federal or state-eligible cultural resources, and
    that the construction crews are aware of the potential for previously undiscovered
    archaeological resources within the plan area, of the laws protecting these resources
    and associated penalties, and of the procedures to follow should they discover cultural
    resources during project related work. To the extent that individual development projects
    are found to have the potential to disturb or destroy archaeological resources,
    subsequent environmental documentation may be required, including mitigation
    measures to address any identified significant impacts. (General Plan Mitigation
    Measure 4.5-1b)

63. Sensitive Paleontological Resources – Prior to the issuance of grading or demolition
    permits, the applicant shall retain a qualified paleontologist to assess individual
    development project proposals within the plan area for the potential to destroy unique
    paleontological resources. The City Planning, Housing and Economic Development
    Department shall require development proposals entailing significant earthworks or deep
    foundations with the potential to penetrate sedimentary rock layers to incorporate a study
    by a professional paleontologist to assess the potential for damage of paleontological
    resources. Should the paleontologist determine that the proposal has the potential to
    damage resources, the study shall include detailed provisions for the protection of these
    resources to the City Planning, Housing, and Economic Development Department.
    These provisions may include the complete avoidance of the resource, in-place
    preservation, and/or complete data recovery as discussed in General Plan Mitigation
    Measure 4.5-1a. (General Plan Mitigation Measure 4.5-2)

64. Work Stoppage for Sensitive Cultural Resources – In the event previously
    undiscovered human remains are identified, work shall stop.

                a. For future development projects permitted by the City under the New
                   General Plan, if human remains are encountered during ground-disturbing
                   activities within specific project sites, the project contractor and/or on-site
                   supervisor shall provide certification to City Planning, Housing, and
                   Economic Development Department that work within 50 feet of the discovery
                   is stopped. The project contractor shall immediately notify the San Mateo
                   County Coroner (Coroner) upon the discovery of any human remains. At the
                   same time, a qualified archaeologist meeting federal criteria under 36 CFR
                   61 shall be contacted by the project applicant(s) and project contractor, in
                   coordination with the City Planning, Housing, and Economic Development
                   Department to assess the situation and consult with the appropriate
                   agencies. If the human remains are of Native American origin, the Coroner
                   shall notify the NAHC within 24 hours of this identification. The NAHC will
                   identify a Most Likely Descendant (MLD) to inspect the site and provide
                   recommendations for the proper treatment or disposition, with proper dignity,
                   of the remains and any associated grave goods. Upon completion of the
                   assessment, the qualified archaeologist shall prepare a report documenting
                   the background to the finds, and providing recommendations for the

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                             Page 18 of 20
                    treatment of the human remains and any associated cultural materials, as
                    appropriate and in coordination with the recommendations of the MLD. The
                    report shall be submitted to the project applicant, the City Planning
                    Department, and the NWIC. Once the report is reviewed and approved by
                    the City Planning Department, and any appropriate treatment completed,
                    project construction activity within the area of the find may resume.

                b. If the MLD does not make recommendations within 48 hours the project
                   applicant(s) shall reinter the remains in an area of the property secure from
                   further disturbance. If the project applicant(s) does not accept the MLD‘s
                   recommendations, the applicant(s) or the MLD may request mediation by
                   the NAHC. (Mitigation Measure 4.5-3a)

65. Training for Cultural, Previously Undiscovered Archaeological, and Human
    Remains Resources – Prior to the issuance of grading permits within the plan area, the
    City Planning, Housing, and Economic Development Department shall confirm that any
    development applicant has required all construction crews to undergo a training session
    to inform them of the presence and nature of federal or state-eligible cultural resources
    and the potential for previously undiscovered archaeological resources and human
    remains within the project area, of the laws protecting these resources and associated
    penalties, and of the procedures to follow should they discover cultural resources during
    project-related work. (Mitigation Measure 4.5-3b)
Other Agency Permits

66. Caltrans – If a portion of the proposed work is within the State of California right-of-way
    (Woodside Road, El Camino Real), the applicant shall contact the California Department
    of Transportation (Caltrans) at (510) 286-4417 to obtain all necessary Encroachment
    Permits. [SDR][ENGINEERING]
General Requirements

67. Exterior Materials – The exterior materials, colors, textures, trim elements, windows
    and roof pitch of the project shall be consistent throughout and substantially conform to
    the colors and plans, date received August 30, 2016, on file with Planning Services.
    [COA][PLANNING]

68. Review of Modifications – Modifications to the approved plans require Planning review
    and approval prior to building permit issuance. Substantial modification of approved
    plans, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, may be subject to an amendment or
    a new Permit. [COA][PLANNING]

69. Residential Noise Notice – The applicant, property owner, or property manager shall
    notify owners or tenants, in writing, before an owner or tenant takes residence that they
    will be living in an urban-type environment and that they noise levels may be higher than
    a strictly residential area. The covenants, conditions, and restrictions of a residential or
    mixed-use project shall require that prospective residents acknowledge the receipt and
    understanding of this information. [COA][PLANNING]

ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                             Page 19 of 20
70. Plan Sheet Consistency – The applicant shall provide plans that provide consistency
    between plan sheets, including but not limited to details such as proposed trees and
    landscape symbols, prior to issuance of building permits. [COA][PLANNING]

71. Title 24 Lighting Zone – The applicant shall comply with Title 24 Lighting Zone (LZ-3)
    requirements and provide lighting and photometric site plans with the building permit
    submittal. The lighting and photometric site plans shall be reviewed by the Building
    Division for compliance with Title 24 Lighting Zone (LZ-3) requirements, prior to the
    issuance of building permits. (General Plan Mitigation Measure 4.1-5)
    [COA][PLANNING]

72. Indemnification – Per Redwood City Code Section 1.54, Applicant shall defend (with
    counsel approved by City), indemnify, and hold harmless the City, its agents, officers,
    and employees from and against any claim, action, or proceeding (including without
    limitation any appeal or petition for review thereof) against the City or its agents, officers
    or employees related to an approval of the Project, including without limitation any related
    application, permit, certification, condition, environmental determination, other approval,
    compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and/or processing
    methods (“Challenge”). City may (but is not obligated to) defend such Challenge as City,
    in its sole discretion, determines appropriate, all at applicant’s sole cost and expense.
    Applicant shall bear any and all losses, damages, injuries, liabilities, costs, and expenses
    (including, without limitation, staff time and in-house attorney's fees on a fully-loaded
    basis, attorney’s fees for outside legal counsel, expert witness fees, court costs, and
    other litigation expenses) arising out of or related to any Challenge (“Costs”), whether
    incurred by Applicant, City, or awarded to any third party, and shall pay to the City upon
    demand any Costs incurred by the City. No modification of the project, any application,
    permit, certification, condition, environmental determination, other approval, change in
    applicable laws and regulations, or change in processing methods shall alter the
    applicant’s indemnity obligation. Per Government Code Section 66474.9, Applicant’s
    indemnification obligation with respect to any Challenge concerning a subdivision
    (tentative, parcel, or final map application or approval) shall be limited to actions brought
    within the time period provided for in Government Code Section 66499.37, unless such
    time period is extended for any reason. The City shall promptly notify Applicant of any
    such claim, action or proceeding and shall cooperate fully in the defense. [COA][OFFICE
    OF THE CITY ATTORNEY]


        Section 8.      This Resolution is effective upon its adoption.

                                *     *     *




ATTY/RESO.0002/PC RESO 910 WOODSIDE
REV: 01-11-17 PR
                                             Page 20 of 20
Community Development
Department
Planning and Housing Division                                            (650) 780-7234
1017 Middlefield Road                                           planning@redwoodcity.org
Redwood City, CA 94063                                              www.redwoodcity.org




Memo
To:        Application No.s PD2016-122 and TM2015-008
From:      Jennifer Savage, Contract Senior Planner
Date:      January 12, 2017
Re:        CEQA Exemption for the Proposed Residential Development at 910 Woodside Road



1.0 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Valera Fooksman, proposes construction of a new 3-story, multi-family building
located at 910 Woodside Road. The project would consist of 10 for-sale residential
condominiums with two-car garages, a total floor area of 25,155 square feet, and a maximum
building height of 37 feet 1 ½ inches. The project would provide onsite bike lockers for a
minimum of four bikes and two bike racks on the public sidewalk. The two existing parcels
would be combined to create the proposed project site.

The existing 1,626 square foot restaurant would be demolished. The project would front
Woodside Road with site access from Woodside Road. The project entails offsite improvements,
including construction of new sidewalks, street trees, and public benches.

Requested project permits include an Architectural Permit, Tentative Map, and a Condo
Permit/Planned Development Permit. The Planning Commission is authorized to take action
on the Condo Permit/Planned Development Permit, and would review the Tentative Map
concurrently.

2.0 CEQA EXEMPTION – SECTION 15183
CEQA mandates that projects that are consistent with the development density established by
existing zoning, community plan, or general plan policies for which an EIR was certified shall
not require additional environmental review, except as might be necessary to examine whether
there are project-specific significant effects which are peculiar to the project or its site. As
proposed, the project is exempt from additional environmental review per Section 15183,
“Projects Consistent with a Community Plan or Zoning,” because the project meets the
following conditions:

        (1) The project is consistent with:
               a. A community plan adopted as part of a general plan,
                                           Page 1 of 5
b. A zoning action which zoned or designated the parcel on which the project
   would be located to accommodate a particular density of development, or

   In compliance with the policies and implementation measures specified in the
   General Plan, the City of Redwood City adopted a zoning action on April 8,
   2013 to establish a Mixed Use Neighborhood District Zoning Ordinance
   Amendment. The project is located in the Mixed Use Neighborhood (MUN)
   Zoning District. The MUN district established the maximum density to 40
   dwelling units per acre in a residential only project. Maximum height is
   limited to 3 stories/40 feet. The project would provide 10 dwelling units on
   land area of 13,349 square feet, which provides a residential density of 32.6
   dwelling units per acre, less than the maximum residential density. The
   project would create a three story, 37 feet 1 ½ inch high building, which does
   not exceed the number of stories or height limits for the district. Therefore,
   the project is consistent with the particular density and intensity of
   development of the zoning action Mixed Use Neighborhood District Zoning
   Ordinance Amendment.

c. A general plan of a local agency, and

   The City Council of Redwood City adopted by resolution a comprehensive
   update of the Redwood City General Plan on October 11, 2010. The New
   General Plan for Redwood City designates the property within the Mixed Use
   Neighborhood land use category. The Mixed Use Neighborhood Development
   Standards limit single use residential density to 40 dwelling units per acre
   and maximum height to three stories. The project would provide 32.6
   dwelling units per acre, less than the maximum residential density. The
   project would create a three story, 37 feet 1 ½ inch high building, which does
   not exceed the height limit. Therefore, the project is consistent with the Mixed
   Use neighborhood land use designation and General Plan for Redwood City in
   terms of density

   The General Plan land use designation for the property is Mixed Use -
   Neighborhood (MU-N). The city’s vision for Woodside Road “… is an
   attractive, walkable residential boulevard with mixed-use nodes that
   residents can easily walk to . . . [and] is an ideal area for new residential
   development . . .” The vision states that “infill residential development should
   incorporate landscaped setbacks while emphasizing the pedestrian
   orientation of frontages in site and building design.” The project would
   provide a residential development near a grocery store and bus stops, and
   provide new street trees and widened sidewalks.

   The project is subject to and complies with General Plan Goals, Polices, and
   Programs, including but not limited to:

   § Policy BE-1.8: Require that new projects are integrated as seamlessly as
     possible into surrounding development, creating extensions of urban
     fabric.
                             Page 2 of 5
§ Policy BE-3.5: Require building and site frontages that define public
  streets with high quality architectural and landscape design, including
  small-scale architectural elements and plane changes.
§ Goal BE-11: Create memorable and engaging retail, residential, and mixed-
  use destinations and paths along the corridors.
§ Policy BE-11.1: Improve the corridors to create a network of “complete
  streets” that emphasized pedestrian orientation and safety, public transit
  access, safe bicycle movement, and other improvements.
§ Policy BE-11.5: Improve public streetscapes along the corridors, including
  widened sidewalks and crosswalks, protected crosswalks, regular street
  tree planting, bus shelters and street furniture, and pedestrian-oriented
  street lighting.
§ Policy BE-11.7: Provide the appropriate density and intensity of land uses
  to facilitate high levels of transit use along corridors.
§ Policy BE-11.8: Ensure that buildings along corridors are sensitive to
  adjacent neighborhoods, providing adequate scale transitions.
§ Goal BE-13: Enhance the Woodside Road Corridor as an attractive
  residential boulevard with walkable mixed-use neighborhood centers, a
  pedestrian and transit-oriented character, and consistent design elements
  that unify its image.
§ Policy BE-13.4: Support new higher-density residential development on
  Woodside Road, while ensuring that new development is sensitive to
  adjacent single-unit residential neighborhoods.
§ Policy BE-23.7: Promote higher residential densities at locations near or
  within commercial, financial, and compatible employment, and also
  transportation corridors where neighborhood services are available.
§ Policy PS-13.10: Do not allow new residential or other noise sensitive land
  use development in noise impacted areas unless effective mitigation
  measures are incorporated into the project design to reduce outdoor
  activity area noise levels.
§ Program PS-61: Acoustical Analyses. Require acoustical analyses, as
  appropriate, for proposed stand-alone residential development within the
  60dB CNEL or higher contour, as shown in Figure PS-12. Require
  incorporation of mitigation measures as necessary to reduce noise levels
  to levels deemed appropriate by the City.

The proposed project is a residential building that would provide for-sale
housing in close proximity to goods and services, and transportation. The site
is within walking distance to a grocery store, cafes, and restaurants, and
services such as a salon and dry cleaner. The site is near bus lines (routes 72,
275, and 278).

The project is designed with ground floor entries facing Woodside Road and
one driveway entrance to minimize the disruption of the pedestrian way.
Pedestrian-scale design features include a widened sidewalk, pedestrian site
lighting, street trees, and public benches. The project provides a higher
density development along a corridor while respecting existing adjacent
multi-family by providing step backs in the design.
                         Page 3 of 5
           The property in located in the noise contours for 60-65, 65-70, and 70-75
           db(A) (Figure PS-11: 2010 Existing Noise Contours). The applicant provided
           a Noise Assessment in compliance with General Plan policies and programs.
           The project includes design measures to reduce the noise levels to acceptable
           levels and the project would be conditioned to provide these design measures
           as part of the project’s construction methods.

           As designed, the project would be consistent with the City’s General Plan and
           meet this condition.

(2) An EIR was certified by the lead agency for the zoning action, the community plan, or
    the general plan.

   The City Council of Redwood City certified the FEIR for the New General Plan for
   Redwood City on October 11, 2010. The City of Redwood City determined that the
   scope of environmental impact associated with the zoning action, Mixed Use
   Neighborhood District Zoning Ordinance Amendment, was fully and adequately
   addressed in the 2010 FEIR for the New General Plan for Redwood City.

(3) There are no project-specific significant effects which are peculiar to the project or its
    site.

   The project is consistent with the land use designation and zoning for the site, and
   there is nothing peculiar about this project or its location that would result in new or
   substantially more severe effects than those identified in the 2010 FEIR, such as
   population growth and an increase in traffic. There are no new circumstances or new
   information relating to the project or its vicinity that would change the conclusions
   of the 2010 FEIR. No substantial capital improvement projects or private
   development projects are nearby. Nor is there new information relating to the
   property or its vicinity that would change the conclusions of the 2010 FEIR.

   The proposed project would not result in transportation impacts greater than those
   analyzed in the 2010 FEIR. The project is expected to result in a reduction of 148
   ADT, an increase of 6 AM peak hour trips, and a reduction of 17 PM peak hour trips.
   No Traffic Impact Analysis report is required for the subject project because the
   project would generate less than 100 net new peak hour trips, and would not create
   impacts greater than those certified by City Council in the 2010 FEIR.

   The site currently contains a one-story restaurant and surface parking. Similar to the
   adjacent multifamily, residential use sites, the subject site is flat and located in an
   urban context surrounded with a mix of multifamily and commercial uses.
   Multifamily residential uses are located to the west and south, and across Woodside
   Road to the east. There is a two-story multifamily residential building to the west, a
   four-story multifamily residential building to the south, and a five-story multifamily
   residential building to the east. Commercial uses are located to the north and east,
   including a partial two-story dental office and gas station with convenience store.
   There are existing shade and ornamental trees (London Plane, Callery pear,
   Hollywood juniper, and Crepe Myrtle) on the border of the property, which were
                                     Page 4 of 5
          found to be in fair to excellent condition. There is nothing peculiar about the site
          that could result in previously unidentified impacts.

3.0 CONCLUSION

The City conducted a review of the project and its impacts to determine whether it is exempt
from CEQA. Based on the discussion and analysis above, no significant impacts were identified
and the project is exempt from CEQA under Section 15183.

Technical Reports:

   1. A New General Plan for Redwood City Final Environmental Impact Report (SCH#
      2010052034), dated August 2010 (Certified October 11, 2010)
   2. Addendum to the Final Environmental Impact Report for the New General Plan for
      Redwood City (SCH# 2010052034) Mixed Use Neighborhood District Zoning Ordinance
      Amendment, April 2013
   3. Noise Assessment Study for the Planned Townhouse Development, Woodside Road,
      Redwood City, prepared by Edward L. Pack Associates, Inc, dated January 12, 2017




                                         Page 5 of 5
REPORT
                                  To the Redwood City Planning Commission
                                                        From Planning Staff

January 17, 2017

SUBJECT
Request by Greystar Development for a Downtown Planned Community Permit
including two (2) guideline deviations (DPC2015-12), a Tentative Map (TM2015-09),
and an Affordable Housing Plan to construct an 8-story building with 350 apartment
units (including 35 affordable units at the low income level), 1,400 sq. ft. of ground floor
retail space, and three levels of underground parking, located at 1409 El Camino Real

RECOMMENDATION
Adopt Resolution 16-20, finding the project consistent with the Downtown Precise Plan
EIR and approving the Downtown Planned Community Permit (DPC2015-12),
Tentative Map (TM2015-09), and Affordable Housing Plan for a new 8-story, 350-unit
residential building (including 35 affordable units at the low income level) and 1,400 sq.
ft. of ground floor retail located at 1409 El Camino Real, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions of approval contained therein.

BACKGROUND
The applicant, Greystar Development, submitted the subject application in December of
2015. After the project was deemed complete, the Architectural Advisory Committee
(ACC) reviewed it on July 7, 2016 to consider the four (4) requested guideline
deviations. The AAC recommended approval of two (2) guideline deviations on the
maximum length establishment and use of permeable pavers and denial of the
remaining two (2) deviations on the garage column locations and wing depth. The AAC
also recommended that the project incorporate more articulation, vertically and
horizontally, to reduce the building’s scale and to provide a change in form from the
adjacent development at 1305 El Camino Real (currently under construction).

Based on the AAC’s recommended denial of the two deviations, the applicant revised
their plans so that they are no longer seeking deviations on the parking layout and
disposition type. The applicant revised the garage column locations to comply with the
guidelines and changed the building disposition type from Courtyard to Rear Yard
instead of reducing the wing depth. In addition, the applicant modified the building’s
exterior to soften its visual appearance including a more asymmetric design,
transparency, articulation, and revised colors and materials.

On November 1, 2016, the Planning Commission (Commission) considered the
proposal. While the Commission was supportive of the project’s design and features,
including the provision of onsite affordable housing units at the low-income level, mixed
use, and site amenities, it shared the AAC’s desire to physically break-up the building’s
mass and scale, and provide variation from the adjacent development at 1305 El
Camino Real. The Commission continued the matter to allow the applicant to revise the
plans by providing physical variation in the building façade fronting El Camino Real,
vertically and horizontally. A majority of the Commission generally supported locating
units on the ground floor fronting the boulevard with entry stoops provided that it
resulted in breaking up the building’s mass and uniform height (Design Alternative 4, as
presented at the November 2016 meeting). While not recommended, the Commission
also asked staff to determine whether Design Alternative 1 (with increased upper story
setbacks, also presented at the November 2016 meeting) could be allowed. See staff’s
analysis attached to this report (Attachment 2).

The applicant responded to the Planning Commission’s comments with the following
project revisions (summarized below and further detailed in the attached summary of
revisions, prepared by the applicant, Attachment 3):

     1.   Converted 4,500 sq. ft. of retail space at the southern corner into four units
          with entry stoops;
     2.   Provided planters adjacent to the entry stoops;
     3.   Revised the sidewalk planters to brick pavers to allow wider sidewalks (at the
          City’s direction);
     4.   Changed the colors, materials, articulation, and roof form of the southern
          building element;
     5.   Broke-up the red brick colonnade at the northern corner, and
     6.   Lowered the height of the southern corner by one story.
                           PROJECT COMPARISON ELEVATIONS
            Prior Proposal




            Revised Proposal
                                 PROJECT COMPARISON TABLE
                               Prior        Revised       Net
                                                                         Comments
                             Proposal      Proposal    Change
Unit count                 350           350           0          Moved 1 unit from 8th to
                                                                  1st floor, removing 2,000
                                                                  sq. ft. of retail
Unit mix                   Studios: 123   Studios: 121   -2       Reconfigured unit mix
                           1 BR: 142      1 BR: 140      -2       based on gain of 3 units
                           2 BR: 80       2 BR: 84       +4       from removing 2,500 sq.
                           3 BR: 5        3 BR: 5        0        ft. of retail
Residential (SF)           295,375        298,310        +2,935
Retail (SF)                5,900          1,400          -4,500
Building amenities (SF)    10,112         10,580         +468     Includes lobby, leasing,
                                                                  fitness, activity room,
                                                                  business lounge, etc.
Residential porches (SF)   940            1,380          +440
Private balconies (SF)     1,855          1,305          -550
Parking (spaces)           398 required   373 required   -25      43 more than required
                           441 provided   441 provided   0        68 more than required
Streetscape landscaped     700            547            -153
area (SF)

ANALYSIS
Staff Analysis of the Project Revisions
The revised design is an overall improvement to the Project and provides varied
heights and forms along the project frontage. The introduction of the ground floor
stoops helps to create interest and variety for the pedestrian experience, and
differentiates this project from the adjacent project at 1305 El Camino Real. The
change in roof height at the south corner helps to visually break-up the building forms.
The applicant also maintained a small portion of ground floor retail at the north corner
of the building. The Commission may also consider whether additional ground floor
retail is appropriate (see Alternatives section, below).

DTPP Standards Review:
Staff has reviewed the revised proposal for compliance with the applicable regulations
in the DTPP, and has determined that all applicable standards fall within the range
allowed (see Table 1, below). The project is located within the Downtown General
zone, which allows residential uses (including on the ground floor), and ground floor
neighborhood retail. On the El Camino Real frontage, the revised plan maintains
ground floor neighborhood retail at the north end, and incorporates ground floor
residential with entry stoops at the south end. Changes based on the revised proposal
are highlighted in red in the table below. Note that the vehicle and bicycle parking
requirements have changed based on conversion of retail to residential uses on the
ground floor. As revised, the project still complies.
Table 1: Project Compliance with Key Standards – Revised Proposal
                     DTPP Standard                   Revised Proposal
Height          35’ min / 92’ max                            92’
                El Camino Real (20’ deep): 35’ min / 48’ max El Camino Real (20’ deep): 37’
                Rooftop projections: 10’ above max           Rooftop projections: 10’ above max

No. of          Generally: 3 min / 8 max                     8
Floors          El Camino Real (20’ deep): 3 min / 4 max     3
Setbacks
         Front El Camino Real: 0’ min / 10’ max              10’
               Diller & Franklin: 0’ min / 10’ max           ~ 1’ – 4’
          Rear 0 ft. min.                                    7’
Vehicle         398 min / 707 max spaces                     441 spaces
Parking
Bicycle         80 spaces                                    89 spaces
Parking
Sidewalks       El Camino Real: 6’ min + 2’ apron            El Camino Real/north end: 10’ + 3’ apron +
                                                             5’ pavers strip
                                                             El Camino Real/south end: 6’ + 3’ apron +
                                                             5’ pavers strip
                Diller: 12’ min                              Diller: 12’
                Franklin: 12’ min                            Franklin: 12’
Architectural Neoclassical, Craftsman,                       Neoclassical
Character     Mediterranean


General Plan Compliance
The 2010 General Plan designation for the DTPP area is Mixed Use – Downtown,
which allows for mixed use, commercial, and residential uses. The General Plan also
establishes programs to encourage mixed‐use urban development along El Camino
Real, in Downtown, and around the CalTrain station. New development projects should
emphasize pedestrian orientation in site and building design, promoting a walkable
environment with active street frontages, well‐scaled and designed buildings, and
engaging outdoor spaces.

Staff finds the project consistent with the General Plan through the following measures:
   • The project provides 3-story massing along the El Camino Real frontage, which
        is setback 18 feet from the roadway to allow an 11 ft. wide sidewalk with a 5 ft.
        wide pavers strip, 8 new street trees, and pedestrian streetlights.
   • The central element is setback an additional 10 ft. to create a courtyard and
        break-up the massing.
   • The El Camino frontage incorporates active ground floor uses including retail,
        residential stoops, and the lobby/leasing area. The frontage is designed with
        large storefront windows and doors for an interesting pedestrian environment.
   •   A secured bicycle room provides storage of 89 bicycles and is accessible from
       Diller Street. In addition, bike racks provide for short term storage within the
       sidewalks.

Affordable Housing
In accordance with the Affordable Housing Impact Fee (AHIF) requirements, the
applicant has elected to provide 35 affordable units at the low-income level onsite (10%
of the total units) and pay a fee of approximately $1.2 million prior to the issuance of a
building permit. The proposed Affordable Housing Plan meets the required Affordable
Housing Impact Fee findings, as outlined in the attached resolution. In addition, the
applicant has committed to a $250,000 donation to Habitat for Humanity’s 612 Franklin
Street project, which has been incorporated as a condition of the project’s approval
(Planning Commission Resolution, Attachment 1).

Tentative Map (Subdivision Ordinance)
The revised project does not alter the Tentative Map requirements, as presented in
the prior version of the Project. The proposed Tentative Parcel Map meets the
required Subdivision Ordinance findings, as outlined in the attached resolution.

Environmental Review
The revised project does not alter the environmental analysis as presented with the
prior version of the Project.

The proposed project would not result in any new environmental impacts or substantial
increase in the severity of any environmental impact beyond those previously identified
in the DTPP program EIR. Nor would the project require new mitigation measures
beyond those identified in the DTPP program EIR and adopted upon approval of the
Downtown Precise Plan. In addition, the Project is consistent with the Downtown
Precise Plan, as discussed herein, and there are no Project-specific environmental
effects, which are peculiar to the Project or the site. Thus, no further environmental
review is required, pursuant to sections 15162, 15163, 15164, 15168, and 15183 of the
CEQA Guidelines.

Public Notification
A public hearing notice was sent to property owners and occupants within a 300-foot
radius from the subject properties, published in the San Mateo Daily Journal
newspaper, and posted on the City’s website and on the City Hall bulletin board 10 days
prior to the public hearing. Pursuant to Section 2.0.3-D of the DTPP, a notice was
posted on the Project’s publicly-accessible frontages 10 days prior to the public hearing.
In addition, the public notice was sent to interested parties.

Subsequent to the Planning Commission hearing, staff received two (2) public
comments on the project (Attachment 4). One comment is in support of the prior
proposal with ground floor retail. The other comment expresses concern with the scale
of the project and what it offers to the community. In addition, the applicant prepared
responses to comments raised at the November 1, 2016 Planning Commission hearing
including the concentration of housing in this area and clarifications on the intersections
analyzed in the traffic analysis (Attachment 5).
ALTERNATIVES
1. Defer action, and request additional CEQA analysis or project revisions.
2. Approve the Tentative Map and DPC Permit, but modify the conditions of approval
   in the attached Resolution.

   At the November 2016 meeting, some Planning Commissioners supported the
   Applicant’s proposed ground floor retail plan. While some retail was maintained in
   the revised proposal, it is a fairly small space. This may make it challenging to lease
   the space for a quality tenant, as retail is more successful when clustered with other
   retail spaces. Should the Planning Commission support additional ground floor
   retail, it could add the following condition provided below. Note that that the
   residential unit count could remain at 350 units with this condition.

   Condition: The applicant shall convert the ~2,000 sq. ft. ground floor space at the
   corner of El Camino Real and the alley (with the red bricks) to an active use
   (neighborhood retail or personal and business services).

3. Deny the Tentative Map and DPC Permit.




Lindy Chan                                     Steven Turner
Senior Planner                                 Planning Manager

ATTACHMENTS
   1. PC Resolution 16-20
   2. Staff analysis of Design Alternative 1
   3. Applicant’s summary of plan revisions
   4. Public Comments
   5. Applicant’s response to comments raised at November 2016 PC Hearing

RELATED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE AT THE PLANNING & HOUSING DIVISION AND ON-LINE
   1. Revised Proposal [Plans & Renderings]
   2. Prior Proposal [Plans & Renderings]
   3. November 1, 2016 Planning Commission Staff Report
   4. Initial Study
   5. Affordable Housing Plan
   6. Affordable Housing Commitment Letter
   7. Affordable Housing Impact Fee Ordinance
   8. Downtown Precise Plan
                                   RESOLUTION NO. PC 16-20

       A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
       REDWOOD    CITY   APPROVING   A  DOWNTOWN     PLANNED
       COMMUNITY    PERMIT,  TENTATIVE   PARCEL    MAP,   AND
       AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN FOR 1409 EL CAMINO REAL
       PURSUANT TO THE CITY OF REDWOOD CITY'S DOWNTOWN
       PRECISE PLAN, SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE, AND AFFORDABLE
       HOUSING IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE

       WHEREAS, Applicant, Greystar Development, submitted an application for a
Downtown Planned Community permit (“DPC”) including four guideline deviations,
Tentative Parcel Map, and Affordable Housing Plan for an 8-story multifamily
residential project consisting of 350 units (including 35 affordable units at the low income
level) and ~1,400 sq. ft. of ground floor retail, located at 1409 El Camino Real, (the
“Project”) which is located within the Downtown Precise Plan area (“DTPP”); and

       WHEREAS, on July 7, 2016, pursuant to Section 2.0.3-A of the DTPP (pg. 28),
the Architectural Advisory Committee (“AAC”) conducted a public hearing to consider
the four (4) proposed deviations from the DTPP guidelines, including use establishments
that exceed the 25 ft. maximum length, the inability to use permeable pavers, residential
parking stalls closer than 6” from columns, and building wings that exceed the
maximum widths of 65 ft. and 45 ft. respectively. The AAC supported 2 of the 4
deviations, including exceeding the maximum length establishment and inability to use
permeable pavers. It did not support exceeding the wing depth for courtyard disposition
types and having garage columns closer than 6” to parking spaces. The AAC also
forwarded comments relating to the building massing, scale, and design to the Planning
Commission (PC). The applicant revised the plans based on AAC’s direction; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City of Redwood City is
empowered by the Subdivision Ordinance of the Redwood City Municipal Code to act
upon applications for Vesting Tentative Parcel Maps and by the Downtown Precise
Plan to act upon applications for Downtown Planned Community permits; and

       WHEREAS, on November 1, 2016 and January 17, 2017, the Planning
Commission considered an Initial Study checklist and its findings prepared by the City's
Planning Division, the previously certified Downtown Precise Plan Program
Environmental Impact Report (State Clearinghouse #2006052027) (“EIR”), the staff
reports, oral and written, and testimony and materials presented by all those wishing to
be heard on this Project at the noticed public hearing on this matter; and

       WHEREAS, on November 1, 2016, pursuant to Section 2.0.3-A of the DTPP (pg.
28), the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing in accordance with all
applicable requirements of the Subdivision Map Act, the Redwood City Municipal
Code, and the Redwood City Zoning Ordinance, to consider the Downtown Planned
Community Permit Application DPC2015-12, Tentative Parcel Map Application TM2015-

                                           Page 1 of22
   ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
   REV: 01-12-17 PR
09, Affordable Housing Plan, all applicable requirements of the State Planning and
Zoning Law and the Downtown Precise Plan, and the recommendations of the AAC. The
Planning Commission continued the matter to allow the applicant to project revisions by
providing physical variation in the building façade fronting El Camino Real, vertically and
horizontally. The Committee generally supported locating units on the ground floor
fronting the boulevard with entry stoops provided that it resulted in breaking up the
building’s mass and uniform height; and

       WHEREAS, on January 17, 2017, pursuant to Section 2.0.3-A of the DTPP (pg.
28), the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing in accordance with all
applicable requirements of the Subdivision Map Act, the Redwood City Municipal
Code, and the Redwood City Zoning Ordinance to consider the requested project
revisions as they relate to the Downtown Planned Community Permit Application
DPC2015-12, Tentative Parcel Map Application TM2015-09, Affordable Housing Plan,
all applicable requirements of the State Planning and Zoning Law and the Downtown
Precise Plan, and the recommendations of the AAC; and

        WHEREAS, the Project will not cause any substantial adverse change in the
significance of any historic resource, including The Record Man shop (1322 El Camino
Real), which will remain eligible for listing in the California Register of Historic Places;
and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission determined that the proposed Downtown
Planned Community permit, Tentative Parcel Map, and Affordable Housing Plan
would further the purposes of and appropriately implement the City of Redwood City
General Plan, applicable provisions of the Redwood City Municipal Code and
Downtown Precise Plan, and the 1409 El Camino Real project.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. The Planning Commission finds that the above recitals are accurate
and constitute findings in this matter and, together with the Staff Report and the
application materials, including without limitation the Initial Study, development plans,
and all other documents, reports, studies, memoranda, maps, oral and written testimony,
and materials in the City's file for the applications and the Project, and all adopted City
planning documents relating to the Project and the property including the City's General
Plan, Municipal Code, Downtown Precise Plan, Downtown Precise Plan EIR, other
applicable City laws and regulations, and all associated approved and certified
environmental documents, have together served as an adequate and appropriate
evidentiary basis for the findings and actions set forth in this Resolution.

      Section 2. Initial Study Checklist (“IS”): In the exercise of its independent
judgment, the Planning Commission finds that:

                        a.     The IS was prepared in accordance with all legal
                        requirements.

                                           Page 2 of22
   ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
   REV: 01-12-17 PR
                     b.     The Planning Commission has reviewed and analyzed the
                     IS and other information in the entire record and has considered
                     the information contained therein, including the written and oral
                     comments received at the public hearing on the Project, prior to
                     acting upon or approving the Project.

                     c.      Based on substantial evidence in the record, the proposed
                     Project is within the scope of the previously approved Downtown
                     Precise Plan and is adequately described in the previously certified
                     Downtown Precise Plan Program EIR for purposes of CEQA. The
                     mitigation measures and Statement of Overriding Considerations
                     associated with certification of the Program EIR address the
                     environmental effects of the Project. Accordingly, with the approval
                     of this Project, all applicable mitigation measures and the Statement
                     of Overriding Considerations are hereby reaffirmed and
                     readopted.

                     d.      As set forth in CEQA Guidelines sections 15162, 15163 and
                     15168, the proposed project will not result in any new or more
                     significant environmental effects or require new mitigation
                     measures beyond those identified in the Downtown Precise Plan
                     Program EIR and adopted upon approval of the Downtown Precise
                     Plan. No new environmental document is required.

                     e.     As set forth in CEQA Guidelines section 15183, subdivisions
                     (a) and (b), the proposed project is consistent with the Downtown
                     Precise Plan (for which the EIR was certified on January 24, 2011)
                     which provides the necessary zoning to accommodate the
                     proposed development density. Further, as discussed in the IS
                     Checklist, there are no environmental effects which are peculiar to
                     the project or its site, nor are there any new significant effects that
                     were not already identified and analyzed in the certified EIR, nor are
                     there any potentially significant off-site impacts or cumulative
                     impacts that were not already identified and analyzed in the certified
                     EIR, nor is there any new information which was not known at the
                     time of the certification of the EIR that identifies any significant
                     effects which will have a more severe adverse impact than
                     discussed in the certified EIR. Further, as set forth in subdivision
                     (d) of CEQA Guidelines section 15183, the proposed project is
                     consistent with the DTPP, and an EIR was prepared for the DTPP.

                     f.     Pursuant to Guidelines section 15091(e), the documents and
                     other materials that constitute the record of proceedings upon
                     which the Planning Commission has based its decision are located
                     in and may be obtained from, the Office of the City Clerk at 1017

                                         Page 3 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
                        Middlefield Road, Redwood City, California. The City Clerk is the
                        custodian of records for all matters before the City.

        Section 3. Tentative Parcel Map TM2015-09: The Planning Commission finds
that:

                        a.     The map, design, and improvements of the proposed
                        subdivision are consistent with the City of Redwood City’s General
                        Plan, Municipal Code, Zoning Ordinance, Downtown Precise Plan,
                        and all applicable subdivision improvements requirements;

                        b.     The site of the proposed subdivision is physically suited for
                        the type and density of the proposed development;

                        c.     The design and proposed improvements are not likely to
                        cause substantial environmental damage, or substantially and
                        avoidably injure fish, wildlife or their habitat, or cause serious
                        public health problems; and

                        d.     The design and proposed improvements of the proposed
                        subdivision will not conflict with essential public easements for access
                        through, or use of, property within the proposed subdivision.


       Section 4. Tentative Parcel Map TM2015-09: The Planning Commission finds
that the proposed subdivision, together with the provisions for its design and
improvement, is consistent with the general plan as set forth in the staff report.

      Section 5 . Downtown Planned Community permit DPC2015-12: The
Planning Commission finds that:

                        a.    The project and improvements proposed by Downtown
                        Planned Community permit DPC2015-12 are consistent with,
                        conform to the intent of, and will appropriately implement the
                        Downtown Precise Plan for the 1409 El Camino Real project; and

                        b.     The establishment, maintenance and operation of the project
                        and improvements proposed by Downtown Planned Community
                        permit DPC2015-12 will not, under the circumstances of this
                        particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety peace, morals,
                        or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
                        neighborhood of the project, or be detrimental or injurious to
                        property or improvements in the neighborhood of the project, or to
                        the general welfare of the City, because the project has been found
                        to be consistent with the community goals established in the City's
                        General Plan and Zoning Ordinance; and

                                            Page 4 of22
   ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
   REV: 01-12-17 PR
                     c.    The Project and improvements comply fully with all applicable
                     standards of the DTPP; and

                     d.     The Project and improvements comply with all but two (2)
                     guidelines of the DTPP. The aspects of the Project which do not
                     conform to the guidelines of the DTPP (which are recommended,
                     not mandatory) nonetheless adequately promote the overall intent
                     of the DTPP.

    Section 6. Affordable Housing Plan: The Planning Commission finds that:

                     a.     The proposed affordable units comply with the standards in
                     Section 18.272, including without limitation compliance with
                     Section 18.272(B) requiring that the affordable units be made
                     available for occupancy concurrently with the market-rate units; and
                     The proposed affordable units would comply with the required
                     standards including providing a comparable quality of construction
                     to onsite market-rate units, making the units available for
                     occupancy at the same time as market-rate units, and ensuring the
                     continued affordability of the units. The affordable units would
                     provide compatible exterior and interior finishes, and amenities as
                     market rate units. This includes the same access to common open
                     space, parking, storage, fitness center, and other onsite facilities.
                     The number of bedrooms and distribution of units within the
                     development would also be comparable to the market-rate units.
                     The affordable units would be available to qualifying very low
                     income households and remain affordable units for a duration of 55
                     years.
                    b.    The affordable units will mitigate the impact of the project on
                    the need for affordable housing.

                     The proposed affordable units mitigate the projects impact on the
                     need for affordable housing by providing a percentage of affordable
                     units at the low income level onsite. This mix of housing
                     affordability will serve a range of users, who will have the same
                     access to goods and services. This partial onsite provision, coupled
                     with the partial in-lieu fee, meets the intent of the Ordinance and
                     mitigates the impact of the project.




                                        Page 5 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
       Section 7. The Tentative Parcel Map and Downtown Planned Community permit
are hereby approved based on the Planning Commission's consideration and reliance
on the Initial Study (IS) and Downtown Precise Plan EIR and in accordance with
the plans, details, descriptions, and conditions of approval contained therein, attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

       Section 8. This Resolution is effective upon its adoption.



                                    *           *          *




                                           Page 6 of22
   ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
   REV: 01-12-17 PR
                                    1409 El Camino Real
             DPC2015-12, Downtown Planned Community Permit and
                          TM2015-09, Tentative Map
The following Conditions of Approval [COA] and Standard Development
Requirements [SDR] apply to this project. The COAs are specific conditions
applicable to the proposed project. The SDRs are items which are codified or
adopted by resolution and have been included for ease of reference, they may not
be appealed or changed. The SDRs are not intended as a comprehensive list. The
COAs and SDRs are grouped under specific headings that relate to the subject
matter and the responsible division is described in brackets, e.g., [PLANNING].
The applicant is responsible for the fulfillment of all conditions and standard
development requirements, unless specifically stated otherwise.
In addition to complying with all applicable City, County, State and Federal
Statutes, Codes, Ordinances, Resolutions and Regulations, Permittee expressly
accepts and agrees to comply with the following Conditions of Approval and
Standard Development Requirements of this Permit:
Project Conformance

1.    Substantial Conformity - All improvements shall substantially conform to the
      project plans prepared by Studio T-Sq, Inc. dated December 8, 2016, and
      related information submitted by the Applicant, on file with the Community
      Development Department. [COA][PLANNING]

2.    Approval Letter & Conditions in Building Permit Plans - This Notice of
      Official Action, with the accompanying conditions of approval, shall be printed
      on the first page of the building permit plans. [COA][PLANNING]

3.    Use - The project approval is for General Residential and Neighborhood
      Retail uses only. Lodging is prohibited. Changes to the approved use require
      review and approval by the City. [COA][PLANNING]

4.    Affordable Housing Commitment – Prior to issuance of the building permit,
      the applicant shall make a $250,000 donation to Habitat for Humanity’s 612
      Jefferson Street project as offered by the applicant.

Fees
The following fees must be paid in full prior to issuance of the building permit unless
otherwise described below.
5.    Transportation Impact Fee - Pay a Transportation Impact Fee for the net
      new trips resulting from the proposed project, estimated at $167,156. [SDR]
      [ENGINEERING]


                                         Page 7 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
6.    Parks Impact Fee – Pay a Parks Impact Fee for the net new dwelling units
      resulting from the proposed project, estimated at $2,999,990.14 prior to final
      map approval. [SDR][PARKS]

7.    Affordable Housing Impact Fee – The applicant shall enter into an
      affordable housing agreement with the City of Redwood City for the provision
      of 35 affordable units at the low-income level as part of the project. In
      accordance with the City’s Affordable Housing Impact Fee requirement, the
      applicant must also pay a fee, estimated at $1,237,852.

8.    School Impact Fee – For residential additions greater than 500 square feet
      and new commercial or industrial construction, pay a School Impact Fee to
      the Sequoia Union High School District. Information regarding this fee may
      be obtained by contacting the Sequoia Union High School District at (650)
      369-1411. [SDR][SCHOOL DISTRICT]

9.    Water and Sewer Fees – Pay applicable water, recycled water, and
      wastewater-related fees as outlined on     the   City’s website.
      [SDR][ENGINEERING]

10. Notice of Fees Protest – The applicant may protest any fees, dedications,
    reservations, or other exactions imposed by the City as part of the approval
    or as a condition of approval of this development. Per California Government
    Code Section 66020, this 90-day protest period has begun as of the date of
    the approval of this application. [SDR][OFFICE OF THE CITY ATTORNEY]

Landscaping and Site Improvements

11. Water-Efficient Landscaping – Provide a landscaping and irrigation plan
    conforming to the California Water-Efficient Landscape Ordinance (AB 1881),
    including an automatic irrigation system (drip, micro-spray, or bubblers) with
    a rain sensor, and show these measures on the building permit plans.
    [COA][PLANNING]

12. Tree Survey - Provide a tree survey that identifies type, diameter at breast
    height (DBH), condition and location prior to building permit issuance.
    [COA][PLANNING]

13. Tree Protection - Provide tree protection measures for ordinance-sized trees
    near the project and show these measures on the building permit plans.
    [COA][PLANNING]

14. Tree Removal Permit - Obtain a Tree Removal Permit for the removal and
    tree trimming of all ordinance-size trees (number, type and location) defined
    within the City’s Tree Preservation Ordinance prior to building permit
    issuance. [SDR][PLANNING]


                                        Page 8 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
15. Stormwater Runoff - Post-construction runoff into the storm drain shall not
    exceed pre-construction runoff levels. The applicant’s design professional
    shall evaluate the project’s impact to the City’s storm drainage system and
    shall substantiate their conclusions with drainage calculations to the
    satisfaction of the City Engineer. The project shall be designed in
    conformance with the Drainage Guidelines for Commercial Development.
    [SDR] [ENGINEERING]

16. Exterior Lighting – Provide a lighting plan for proposed exterior lighting,
    including cut sheets, a photometric site plan demonstrating light levels and a
    diagram showing light spillover. This information shall be included in the
    building permit plans. New light sources must not introduce glare or light
    effects that spill off the property. [COA][PLANNING]

17. Bicycle Parking – Provide for at least 89 bicycle storage spaces and
    demonstrate this on the building permit plans. Short-term bike parking shall
    be provided on the sidewalk, close to public entrances. Bicycle parking details
    shall be included in the building permit plans. [COA][ENGINEERING]

18. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations –Provide for and install Electric Vehicle
    Charging Stations (EVCS) equivalent to at least 3% of the total parking
    spaces (minimum of 20). Provide the appropriate number of accessible EVCS
    with at least one van accessible, including considerations for signage and
    time limits. Demonstrate this on the building permit plans.
    [COA][ENGINEERING]

Parcel Map

19. Parcel Map - Obtain approval and record a Parcel Map prior to building permit
    issuance. All parcel maps shall include the lot configuration and proposed
    easements and conform to the Subdivision Map Act and Chapter 30 of the
    Municipal Code. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

20. Agreements - Prior to Parcel Map approval, enter into the following
    agreements in a form acceptable to the City Attorney and the Community
    Development Director: [COA][ENGINEERING]
            a. A Landscape Maintenance Agreement for all assigned landscape
               areas in public rights of way, easements, and/or on property which
               the City holds an interest to be maintained. Maintenance items shall
               include, but are not limited to, planting trees, shrubs, flowers, grass
               and all appurtenances including irrigation systems and pedestrian
               scale lighting as installed by this project.
            b. A Stormwater Treatment Measures Maintenance Agreement for
               all on-site stormwater treatment measures associated with the
               project.

                                        Page 9 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
            c. An Improvement Agreement to guarantee the installation of all
               improvements required of the project and to provide for payment of
               all City inspection and plan check charges associated with the
               installation of public and private improvements, including, but not
               limited to, streets, sanitary sewers, water, storm drains and street
               lights.
            d. Affordable Housing Agreement with the City restricting the rental
               of thirty-five (35) units, comprised of thirteen (13) studio units,
               fourteen (14) one-bedroom units, and eight (8) two-bedroom units to
               “low income households” (as defined in Health & Safety Code
               Section 50105) at an “affordable rent” (including a reasonable utility
               allowance), which shall in no event exceed 80 percent of area
               median income, adjusted for family size appropriate for the unit, for
               a period of 55 years from the date of occupancy. The affordable
               housing agreement shall specify the number, type, location, size,
               and phasing of all affordable units, provisions for income certification
               and screening of potential purchasers or renters of units, and resale
               control mechanisms, including the financing of ongoing
               administrative and monitoring costs, consistent with the approved
               affordable housing plan.

Reports and Surveys
21. Geotechnical Report - Include a geotechnical field review and reports for all
    grading work, prepared by a licensed geotechnical engineer and in
    conformance with Engineering Standards, Volumes II & III, CBC, and other
    State regulations. This shall be submitted as part of the building permit
    application. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

22. As-Built – Provide “as-built” or “record” drawings, to be submitted in paper,
    PDF and AutoCAD formats prior to project sign-off. [COA][ENGINEERING]

23. Field Survey Data – Provide all field survey data related to the project in
    AutoCAD format prior to building permit issuance. [COA][ENGINEERING]

Utility Infrastructure Improvements

24. Conformance with the City’s Engineering Standards – All public
    improvements shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
    City’s Engineering Standards. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

25. Encroachment Permits – Obtain an Encroachment Permit from the
    Engineering and Transportation Division for work listed below. This permit
    shall be obtained prior to the commencement of construction of the road,
    utilities, or any site improvements. [SDR][ENGINEERING]


                                        Page 10 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
            a. Work in the City public right-of-way, easements or property in which
               the City holds an interest.
            b. Work requiring a grading permit. Grading permits require a Plot and
               Finished Grading Plan prepared by a California-registered Civil
               Engineer.
            c. Work requiring on-site shoring which affects the public right-of-way.
            d. Work using the public right-of-way for any fixed structure (awnings,
               roof overhangs, fixed planters, etc.). Insurance, meeting the City’s
               standards, is required. This permit will be recorded against the
               property.

26. Undergrounding Utilities - The applicant shall underground all overhead
    utilities along Diller Street, which shall be shown on the building permit plans.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

27. Sewer Capacity – Prior to encroachment permit issuance, submit to the City,
    and obtain approval of, an evaluation and report prepared by a licensed
    engineer demonstrating that the existing sewer mains have sufficient capacity
    for the project. The study shall consider existing, project, other approved
    projects, and applications currently under review in determining the needed
    capacity. If the existing sewer main is less than 6” in size, or is in any other
    way not sufficient as determined by the City Engineer, applicant shall, as part
    of the Project, construct and install new sewer mains sufficient to meet such
    requirements, in accordance with the City's Engineering standards and as
    directed by the City Engineer to the City Engineer's satisfaction.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

28. Peak Wet Weather Flow Capacity – The applicant shall reduce inflow and
    infiltration (I/I), subject to the adopted methodology established by the
    Engineering Division to offset increased sewer demand from the project by
    replacing aged sewer mains or pay an equivalent in-lieu fee. The length of
    pipe replacement required or the amount of fee will be based on the project’s
    sewage generation projection (Attachment L of the City’s Engineering
    Standards). For parcels within Redwood City but connecting to County
    owned and maintained sewer, an I/I in-lieu fee may be collected by Redwood
    City if the County does not require main replacement or collect and in-lieu
    fee. [COA][ENGINEERING]

29. Sewer Lateral Limit – The project is limited to one sewer lateral.
    [COA][ENGINEERING]

30. Water Mains - Prior to encroachment permit issuance, submit to City, and
    obtain approval of, an evaluation and report, prepared by a licensed engineer,
    in conformance with the City's Engineering Standards, demonstrating that the
    proposed water main meets the domestic and fire flow requirements in
    accordance with City Code Section 38.26 and the International Fire Code. If
                                        Page 11 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
      the existing water main is less than 6” in size, or is in any other way not
      sufficient as determined by the City Engineer, applicant shall, as part of the
      Project, construct and install new water mains sufficient to meet such
      requirements, in accordance with the City's Engineering Standards and as
      directed by the City Engineer. New water mains shall be 8” minimum in size
      and extend across the entire property frontage, from the nearest point of
      connection to an existing 6” or larger water main. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

31. Water Meters – The project shall have one “master” water meter for domestic
    water service for the residential use and one “master” water meter for
    domestic water service for the retail use. Any metering for individual units
    beyond these master meters must be accomplished by private sub-meters
    within the property. [COA][ENGINEERING]

32. Recycled Water Facilities – Recycled water (purple pipe) facilities shall be
    provided and designed in accordance with Engineering Standards for dual
    plumbing, irrigation, and other warranted uses per the Recycled Water
    Ordinance, Chapter 38. Services that are to be supplied by recycled water
    (either at the time of project completion or at a future date) shall be designed
    to properly function at the design pressure required by Engineering. Upon a
    final determination by the City that recycled water is available for the property,
    the applicant shall connect the project to the recycled water system.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

33. Recycled Water Report - The applicant shall hire an engineer licensed in
    California and experienced in the field of wastewater treatment to prepare a
    recycled water report for dual plumbed facilities, pursuant to California Water
    Code section 13522.5 and in accordance with California Code of Regulations
    sections 60314 and 60323 (found within Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 3). The
    report shall be submitted prior to project closeout, and will be routed to the
    Public Works Department for review and coordination. It is recommended a
    draft of the report is prepared prior to commencing any plumbing work to
    prevent the need for unplanned changes. [COA] [ENGINEERING]

34. Cross-Connection Control Test - Prior to issuance of the certificate of
    occupancy, all applicable plumbing systems must pass a cross-connection
    control test, performed by a Cross-Connection Control Specialist Certified
    through the CA-NV Section of the AWWA and observed by Public Works staff.
    The cross-connection control test method must be included in the Recycled
    Water Report. [COA] [ENGINEERING]

35. Discharge Permit for Subterranean Garages - If the subterranean garage
    requires groundwater pumping into the sewer system, a Discharge fee will
    apply and a Discharge Permit will be required by Silicon Valley Clean Water
    (SVCW) prior to issuance of the building permit. [SDR][ENGINEERING]



                                        Page 12 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
36. Backflow Protection – Backflow protection on all water services is required.
    The backflow preventer shall be above grade and located on private property,
    accessible to the Public Works division for testing. [COA][ENGINEERING]

37. Fire Flow - The Project shall meet fire flow requirements as established by
    the Fire Department which are based on the Fire Code. Fire flow tests are
    typically performed during the preliminary design phase but must be
    completed prior to submittal of final design. Applicant shall contact the Fire
    Department for fire flow requirements, and then submit a written fire flow test
    request to Engineering. [COA][ENGINEERING]

38. C3 Requirements - Plans shall be designed to meet C3 requirements of the
    Municipal Regional Permit (MRP) NPDES Permit CAS612008 and be in
    compliance with San Mateo County C.3 Stormwater Technical Guidance.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]
            a. Treatment Controls – Treatment measures to be shown on final
               improvement or grading plans shall not differ materially from the
               treatment measures presented on the project’s Tentative Parcel
               Map, approved on, without written approval from the Engineering
               Department.
            b. Treatment Measure Inspection – Applicant shall coordinate
               installation of stormwater treatment measures with the municipality,
               shall arrange to have the City’s designated inspector present at the
               time of installation, and shall have the City’s designated inspector
               complete a final inspection of installed stormwater treatment
               measure immediately after installation is complete.

39. Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) – Applicant shall prepare a SWMP
    that includes, at a minimum, exhibit(s) showing drainage areas and location
    of Low Impact Development (LID) treatment measures; total project site area
    and total area of land disturbed; total new and/or replaced impervious area;
    treatment measures and hydraulic sizing calculations; a listing of source
    control and site design measures to be implemented at the site; saturated
    hydraulic conductivity rate(s) at relevant locations or hydrologic soil type (A,
    B, C or D) and source of information; elevation of high seasonal groundwater
    table; and a brief summary of how the project is complying with Provision C.3
    of the MRP. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

40. Construction General Permit – For construction activity resulting in a land
    disturbance of one acre or more, applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI)
    with the State Water Resources Control Board under the Construction
    Activities Storm Water General Permit (General Permit). The NOI indicates
    the applicant’s intent to comply with the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater
    Pollution Prevention Program, including a Stormwater Pollution Prevention
    Plan (SWPPP). [SDR] [ENGINEERING]


                                        Page 13 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
41. Stormwater BMPs - Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program Best
    Management Practices (BMPs) for construction shall be implemented to
    protect water quality, in accordance with the approved Stormwater Pollution
    Prevention Plan (SWPPP). BMP plan sheets are available electronically for
    inserting into project plans. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

Street Infrastructure Improvements

42. Streetlights - A new streetlight shall be installed, if needed, as determined
    by the City Engineer. Streetlights are required on the construction of a new
    commercial building or performance of substantial commercial remodeling
    with street frontage of 200 feet or more. The style and location of all
    streetlights shall be as determined by the City Landscape Architect.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]

43. Street Trees - A total of 32 (24-inch box) street trees shall be planted along
    Franklin, Diller, El Camino Real, and the alleyway frontages. The tree species
    and location shall be as determined by the City Landscape Architect. These
    improvements shall be included as part of the building permit submittal
    package. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

44. Repair or Replace Street Infrastructure - Restore streets surrounding the
    project site to the satisfaction of the City Engineer at project completion.
    When this requires additional pavement restoration, the Engineer shall
    approve the preferred layout of pavement markings. [SDR][ENGINEERING]
            a. The entire width of Diller Street along the project frontage, including
               street, curb, gutter, and sidewalks on both sides of the street (except
               for the sidewalk, curb, and gutter work included in the project located
               at 1305 El Camino Real).
            b. Permittee shall request permission from Caltrans to: (1) restore El
               Camino Real, from the median island to the property line, along the
               project frontage, including the intersection with Diller Street,
               including the street, curb, gutter, and sidewalks, and (2) remove the
               right-turn only land on El Camino Real. If granted, these changes
               will be implemented with the reconstruction of the street.
            c. The sidewalk on the southwest side of Franklin St between the bulb-
               outs on Wilson St and Diller St.
            d. Bulb-outs on both sides of Diller Street at the intersection with
               Franklin Street.
            e. All sidewalk replacement will need to include street trees and
               pedestrian lighting at a spacing as required by the City’s Landscape
               Architect.

45. Pavement Moratorium - Portions of Franklin, and Diller Streets have either
    recently been reconstructed, or may be reconstructed prior to or as part of
                                        Page 14 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
      this project. Any streets reconstructed within the past 5 years are subject to
      a pavement moratorium. Per Chapter 29 of the City’s municipal code, no cuts
      in the street are allowed within 5 years of the completion of the pavement
      project. [SDR][ENGINEERING]
            a. An exception may be granted by the City Engineer pursuant to the
               findings in Chapter 29. If an exception is granted, the permittee
               would be required to reconstruct the street completely rebuilding, by
               removing all the pavement and aggregate base course material, re-
               compacting the sub-base and restoring the base material and then
               completely re-paving the street, for a minimum of the full width of all
               lanes impacted by the cut(s) (outside lane includes to the curb) and
               extending the entire length of the recent reconstruction, or for a
               length determined by the City Engineer to be sufficient to restore the
               street to its new condition, as if it had never been cut, or as more
               specifically directed by the City Engineer/designee.
            b. For recently renovated streets the City Engineer may allow the
               permittee to restore the street to its former condition by resurfacing
               the street to the same extent as was performed by the City, except
               that the asphalt or surface material installed by the City must first be
               removed by the permittee to a depth as directed by the City Engineer.
            c. Alternatively, a permittee may choose to pay the Pavement Damage
               Restoration Fee established by City Council Resolution, in which
               event, the City Engineer shall authorize a repair less than full and
               complete reconstruction of the entire newly reconstructed street.

46. Street Design and Driveways - Changes to streets or driveways, including
    replacement of abandoned driveways, shall conform to Engineering
    Standards and require approval of the City Engineer. All new curb ramps shall
    meet the current Caltrans standards for ADA access. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

47. Parking Garage Ramps - Parking garage ramps shall meet Engineering
    Standards and consider safety and visibility of pedestrians to the satisfaction
    of the City Engineer. Access controls shall be designed and placed in such a
    way that vehicles do not block the public sidewalk or queue in the public right-
    of-way. The access control system shall be delineated in the building permit
    submittal. Person doors with panic hardware and alarms shall be installed at
    or adjacent to, gates between private and public parking to allow the safest
    emergency egress path of travel. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

48. Shoring for Excavations – No tiebacks shall extend into the public right of
    way or onto adjacent properties without the written agreement of the City
    and/or private property owner. Any tie-backs within the City’s right of way
    shall be de-tensioned prior to permit sign-off and/or project acceptance.
    [COA] [ENGINEERING]


                                        Page 15 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
Fire and Safety

49. Emergency Radio Coverage – All building and parking garages shall have
    approved radio coverage for emergency responders within the building. Upon
    completion of the building construction, a radio coverage test shall be
    conducted per the applicable codes and standards and if the test fails an
    Emergency Responders Radio Coverage System shall be installed. Verify
    any Blue Box phone communication requirements with the Redwood City
    Police Department. [SDR][FIRE]

50. Addressing and Access – The following requirements apply: [COA][FIRE]
           a.   Addresses must be logical, sequential numbers, i.e. First Floor 101,
                102, 103, Second Floor 202, 203, 204, as opposed to F303, G401,
                etc.
           b.   Floor plan maps shall be submitted with unit numbers at all
                entrances, excluding fire exits.
           c.   Provide a key pad with 24 hour access code for public safety
                personnel at the main entrance, as opposed to just RFID readers or
                similar devices

51. High-Rise Construction – The building is considered a High-Rise and must
    comply with all codes for High-Rise construction as the height of the top
    occupied floor slab exceeds 75 feet. Height is measured from the lowest
    point of the gutter, at the lowest street elevation. [SDR][BUILDING]

52. Elevator Requirements – The following requirements for elevators apply:
    [SDR][BUILDING]
            a. One elevator shall be available for use as an accessible means of
               egress in case of emergency.
            b. One elevator shall be connected to backup generator power in order
               to remain operable during emergencies. This elevator shall be
               provided with appropriate signage and shall extend to all floors
               including the lower levels of the parking structure
            c. All additional elevators shall be connected to battery backup with
               sufficient power to bring the elevator to the exit level in the event of
               an emergency.
            d. All elevators shall be equipped with smoke curtains.

Construction-Related Activities

53. Building Height – The new building is proposed at the maximum building
    height of the zoning district at 92 ft. Include a specific note on the front page
    of the plans submitted for building permit review notifying the building
    inspectors to verify the maximum height in the field. All dimensions, including
                                        Page 16 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
      building location on the site, setbacks, building height, etc. shall be verified
      by a licensed surveyor. A survey report shall be provided to the Building
      Inspector for review and approval. [COA][PLANNING]

54. Sales and Use Taxes – For commercial projects with a valuation of over $10
    million, register with the Board of Equalization to create an ID prior to project
    construction and operation. This maximizes the City’s allocation of sales and
    use taxes associated with project construction. Contact Nancy Murguia,
    Finance Department, at (650) 780-7097 or nmurguia@redwoodcity.org.
    [COA][FINANCE]

55. Hours of Construction – Construction activity is permitted between 7:00
    a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, except as permitted on weekends
    by the Building Official, and shall adhere to the City’s Noise Ordinance. If
    possible, the noisiest construction activities would be scheduled for daytime
    hours when the ambient noise levels are highest. [SDR][BUILDING]

56. Construction Meetings – The applicant is required to contact the Permit
    Counter (650.780.7350) to schedule the following meetings prior to or during
    construction. [COA][BUILDING]

      a. Pre-Submittal – Prior to building permit submittal, schedule a pre-
         submittal meeting with Building, Planning, Engineering and Fire staff to
         discuss the permitting process and submittal requirements.

      b. Pre-Construction - After City permits are issued, but prior to start of
         construction, schedule a pre-construction meeting with Engineering,
         Building, Fire, and Planning staff to discuss the inspection process and
         requirements for construction and site work. The applicant shall arrange
         for the attendance of the owner, developer, construction manager,
         contractor, and all subcontractors who are responsible for grading and
         erosion and sedimentation protection controls. After City permits are
         issued the project manager or jobsite superintendent shall schedule a pre-
         construction meeting with the project field inspectors, contractors and sub-
         contractors to go over the expectations that the field inspectors will have.
     c. Interior Finishes & Amenities - After sheetrock inspection but prior to
        installation, contact the Project Planner and Housing Staff to verify, to the
        City’s satisfaction, that all interior finishes and amenities in the affordable
        units are equivalent to amenities used in market rate units.
57. Materials Mock-Up – Prior to framing inspection, prepare a mock-up that is
    outdoors, readily accessible, and will remain intact until the project has
    reached substantial completion. The mock-up should include all project colors
    and materials, windows for the base and top, balconies, lighting, and
    architectural details, as well as construction details, such as the weep screed,
    to understand how the design addresses them. Then schedule a mock-up
    meeting with the Planning and Building Departments for final review and

                                        Page 17 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
      approval of the project details. Submit an updated colors and materials board
      or details if any changes are made as a result of the mock-up meeting.

58. Certification Letters - Prior to final inspection, submit certification letters
    from the following architects verifying that the project, as constructed,
    complies with approved plans. After the certification letter has been
    submitted, the project planner will also confirm substantial compliance with
    the approved plans during the scheduled final inspection. [COA][PLANNING]:
            a. Project Landscape Architect verifying substantial conformance with
               the approved landscape plan, including species, size, quantity, and
               location of the approved trees, shrubs, and groundcover. It shall also
               verify landscape lighting, fencing, irrigation, and other details as
               applicable.
            b. Project Architect verifying substantial conformance with the
               approved elevations, colors, materials, exterior light fixtures, and
               architectural details.

59. Construction Management and Staging - Prior to encroachment permit
    issuance, submit a construction parking management plan, which shall
    outline the number of construction workers by phase, phase duration, where
    parking will be located for each phase. Construction parking, material storage,
    equipment, or other construction-related uses are not allowed within the City
    right of way without prior approval from the City Engineer.
    [COA][ENGINEERING]

60. Lane Closures - Traffic control for lane closures shall conform to the Work
    Area Traffic Control Handbook. Street closures require submission of traffic
    control plans and approval in advance. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

61. Winterizing - If construction is not complete by the start of the wet season
    (October 1 through April 30), implement a winterization program to minimize
    the potential for erosion and sedimentation. As appropriate to the site and
    status of construction, winterization requirements shall include
    inspecting/maintaining/cleaning all soil erosion and sedimentation controls
    prior to, during, and immediately after each storm event; stabilizing disturbed
    soils through temporary or permanent seeding, mulching, matting, tarping or
    other physical means; rocking unpaved vehicle access to limit dispersion of
    much onto public right-of-way; and covering/tarping stored construction
    materials, fuels, and other chemicals. Plans to include proposed measures
    to prevent erosion and polluted runoff from all site conditions shall be
    submitted for approval by CDD prior to beginning construction. As site
    conditions warrant, the City Engineer may direct the applicant to implement
    additional winterization requirements. [COA][ENGINEERING]




                                        Page 18 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
62. Grading – Grading shall be performed in accordance with the City’s
    Engineering Standards. Soil or other construction materials shall not be
    stockpiled in the public right-of-way. Submit cut/fill volumes (CY) for all soils
    to be imported to or exported from the site. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

63. Monitoring - The Soils Engineer shall conduct continuous site inspections
    during trenching and backfill operations at the applicant’s expense. The Soils
    Engineer shall take compaction tests and submit the results to Engineering &
    Construction. [SDR][ENGINEERING]

64. Contaminated Soil and Groundwater – Removal and disposal of
    contaminated soil and groundwater for project excavation shall require pre-
    notification of the San Mateo County Health System Groundwater Protection
    Program (GPP), and the implementation of GPP-defined handling and
    disposal protocols. These protocols shall be described in a soil and
    groundwater management plan prior to construction, and subject to review
    and approval by the City and the County GPP. The plan shall address all
    items detailed in the Summary of Section VIII of the project Initial Study.
    [COA][PLANNING]

Downtown Specific Projects

65. Downtown Mitigation Measures – Implement and comply with all applicable
    mitigation measures described in the Environmental Impact Report (EIR) and
    Mitigation Monitoring Program (MMRP) for the Downtown Precise Plan,
    adopted by the City Council by Resolution No. 15086, including mitigations
    expressly identified in the Initial Study for this project. [SDR][PLANNING]

            a. Archaeological Resources (Mitigation 7-1) - In the event that any
               deposits of prehistoric or historic archaeological materials are
               encountered during project construction activities, all work within an
               appropriate buffer area shall be stopped and a qualified
               archaeologist shall be contacted to assess the deposit and make
               recommendations, possibly including complete avoidance of the
               resources, in-place preservation, or data recovery as detailed in
               Mitigation 7-1 of the DTPP EIR.[COA][PLANNING]

            b. Paleontological Resources (Mitigation 7-5) - Prior to the issuance
               of grading or demolition permits, the Community Development
               Department, in coordination with a qualified paleontologist, shall
               assess the project for the potential to destroy unique paleontological
               resources and to determine provisions to protect such resources
               when applicable, possibly including complete avoidance of the
               resources, in-place preservation, and/or data recovery as detailed in
               Mitigation 7-2 of the DTPP EIR. [COA][PLANNING]



                                        Page 19 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
            c. Noise and Vibration Studies (Mitigations 11-1 and 11-2) - The
               applicant shall submit a site-specific noise study consistent with the
               requirements of the California Building Code (CBC) and incorporate
               noise reduction measures necessary to achieve compatibility with
               the City’s Noise Element guidelines (55 dBA CNEL at sensitive
               exterior spaces) and Title 24 standards (45 dBA CNEL within
               residential units). Each noise study shall be approved by the Building
               Division prior to issuance of the building permit per Mitigation 11-1 of
               the DTPP EIR. [COA][BUILDING]

            d. Construction Noise and Vibration (Mitigations 11-3 and 11-4) –
               Construction activities shall minimize the impacts of noise and
               vibration on adjacent properties. More requirements and details of
               these mitigation measures are found in Mitigation 11-3 and 11-4 of
               the DTPP EIR. [COA][ENGINEERING]

            e. Air Quality Report (Mitigation 12-1) – The applicant shall provide
               an air quality report to analyze the potential health risks and
               incorporate appropriate design and construction features that reduce
               potential exposure of persons to pollutants in accordance with
               BAAQMD adopted standards for control of odor/toxics for sensitive
               receptors. More requirements and details of this mitigation measure
               are found in Mitigation 12-1 of the DTPP EIR. [COA][BUILDING]

            f. Odor Impacts of Mixed-Use Development (Mitigation 12-2) – The
               applicant shall implement some or all of the following measures, to
               City satisfaction, to reduce odors generated by food service uses
               (consistent with the BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines): integral
               grease filtration or grease removal systems, baffle filters,
               electrostatic precipitators, water cooling/cleaning units, disposable
               pleated or bag filters, activated carbon filters, oxidizing pellet beds,
               catalytic conversion, proper packaging and frequency of food waste
               disposal, and exhaust stack and vent location with respect to
               receptors. More details of this mitigation measure is found in
               Mitigation 12-2 of the DTPP EIR. [COA][BUILDING]

            g. Wildlife Movement and Impacts (Mitigation 15-3) – The applicant
               shall hire a qualified biologist to conduct a survey for nesting birds
               prior to tree removal or trimming, and submit the survey for filing. All
               tree removal and trimming shall take place outside of the breeding
               season. [COA][PLANNING]

            h. Corrosive Soils Impacts (Mitigation 16-2) – Water systems and
               other buried metal infrastructure shall have cathodic protection using
               a sacrificial anode system. Design criteria for cathodic protection
               shall conform to Part VII (G) of the City’s water system design criteria

                                        Page 20 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
                 and stand specifications details Section 02661. Concrete mix
                 designs shall conform to California Department of Transportation
                 (Caltrans) Memo to Designers 10-5 January 2002 Protection of
                 Reinforcement Against Corrosion Due to Chlorides, Acids and
                 Sulfates. [COA][ENGINEERING]

            i.   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation (Mitigation 16-3) – The applicant
                 shall prepare erosion control plans subject to City approval and
                 consistent with the required project Stormwater Pollution Prevention
                 Plans (SWPPPs) as well as Best Management Practices (BMPs)
                 specified by the Redwood City Stormwater Management and
                 Discharge Control Program (Municipal Code Chapter 27A). The
                 plans and BMPs shall be implemented during construction as
                 detailed in Mitigation 16-3 of the DTPP EIR. [COA][ENGINEERING]

66. Downtown TDM – A final Transportation Demand Management (TDM)
    program, describing the elements to be implemented, shall be reviewed and
    approved prior to certificate of building occupancy. The TDM program shall
    include an annual reporting requirement for the first three years that details
    overnight parking utilization rates and resident use and awareness of the
    program. Annual reporting shall be submitted on December 1 of each year
    following the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. [COA][ENGINEERING]

67. Notice of Right to Operations – Provide a “Notice of Right to Downtown
    Operations” to all tenants prior to execution of any lease per DTPP Section
    2.2.5. [SDR][PLANNING]

68. Window Visibility – Ground floor windows for non-residential uses shall
    provide an unobstructed view into the building of at least 20 feet.
    [SDR][PLANNING]

69. Scaled Model – Upon issuance of building permits, provide a scaled model
    of the project per the City’s specifications or adequate funds to build the
    model for the City’s use. [COA][PLANNING]

70. Signs – Future signs require a separate sign permit and shall conform to the
    requirements of the Downtown Precise Plan and Chapter 3 of the Municipal
    Code. [SDR][PLANNING]

Other Agency Permits

71. Caltrans - The applicant shall contact the California Department of
    Transportation (Caltrans) at (510) 286-4417 to obtain an Encroachment
    Permit for all necessary work within the El Camino Real right-of-way.
    [SDR][ENGINEERING]



                                        Page 21 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
General Requirements

72. Exterior Materials – The exterior materials, colors, textures, trim elements,
    windows and roof pitch of the project shall be consistent throughout and
    substantially conform to the colors and materials board, date received
    October 20, 2016, on file with Planning Services. [COA][PLANNING]

73. Review of Modifications - Modifications to the approved plans require
    Planning review and approval prior to building permit issuance. Substantial
    modification of approved plans, as determined by the Zoning Administrator,
    may be subject to an amendment or a new Permit. [COA][PLANNING]

74. Indemnification – Per Redwood City Code Section 1.54, Applicant shall
    defend (with counsel approved by City), indemnify, and hold harmless the
    City, its agents, officers, and employees from and against any claim, action,
    or proceeding (including without limitation any appeal or petition for review
    thereof) against the City or its agents, officers or employees related to an
    approval of the Project, including without limitation any related application,
    permit, certification, condition, environmental determination, other approval,
    compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, and/or
    processing methods (“Challenge”). City may (but is not obligated to) defend
    such Challenge as City, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate, all at
    applicant’s sole cost and expense. Applicant shall bear any and all losses,
    damages, injuries, liabilities, costs, and expenses (including, without
    limitation, staff time and in-house attorney's fees on a fully-loaded basis,
    attorney’s fees for outside legal counsel, expert witness fees, court costs, and
    other litigation expenses) arising out of or related to any Challenge (“Costs”),
    whether incurred by Applicant, City, or awarded to any third party, and shall
    pay to the City upon demand any Costs incurred by the City. No modification
    of the project, any application, permit, certification, condition, environmental
    determination, other approval, change in applicable laws and regulations, or
    change in processing methods shall alter the applicant’s indemnity obligation.
    Per Government Code Section 66474.9, Applicant’s indemnification
    obligation with respect to any Challenge concerning a subdivision (tentative,
    parcel, or final map application or approval) shall be limited to actions brought
    within the time period provided for in Government Code Section 66499.37,
    unless such time period is extended for any reason. The City shall promptly
    notify Applicant of any such claim, action or proceeding and shall cooperate
    fully in the defense. [COA][OFFICE OF THE CITY ATTORNEY]




                                        Page 22 of22
ATTY/RESO.0001/PC RESO 1409 EL CAMINO
REV: 01-12-17 PR
Community Development
Department
Planning and Housing Division                                           (650) 780-7234
1017 Middlefield Road                                          planning@redwoodcity.org
Redwood City, CA 94063                                             www.redwoodcity.org




Memo
To:        Planning Commission

From:      Lindy Chan, Senior Planner

Re:        Would Design Alternative 1 be permitted at 1409 El Camino Real?


Background:
While the Commission did not recommend Design Alternative 1 (described below), it
directed staff to evaluate whether it could be allowed on the project at 1409 El Camino
Real.

        Design Alternative 1: Provide an increased stepback along El Camino Real, similar
        to the 601 Main St project (Marston development). This would reduce the
        building’s scale by further stepping back the 8-story elements.




Applicant’s Response:
The applicant noted that the requirements and guidelines for the 1409 El Camino Real
project are different than those for 601 Main Street (where increased stepbacks are used).
They also contended that the DTPP prohibited this design alternative on their project




                                        Page 1 of 2
based on the requirement for minimum frontage coverage of 75% (DTPP Section 2.5.1, pg.
65).

Standards Comparison:
  Standard                   601 Main                      1409 El Camino Real              Code
  Frontage          90% min for lower stories          75% min for lower stories          2.5.2.D.b
  Coverage                                                                                (pg. 68)
 Stepdown                      3 Story                            4 Story                2.7 & 2.7.1
Height Zone       40 ft. setback for upper stories   20 ft. setback for upper stories   (pg. 82 & 84)

Staff Analysis:

Frontage Coverage
The frontage coverage is the amount of primary linear building façade located along the
front setback line. This idea is that buildings would predominantly align the sidewalk to
create a vibrant pedestrian experience. As such, the frontage coverage standards state,
“the frontage coverage requirement is applied to the portion of the primary building mass
within the required minimum building height” (DTPP 2.5.2.D.1.b, pg. 68). In other words,
the development within the stepdown zone shall comply with the frontage coverage
requirements; however upper stories are not subject to these requirements.

Stepdown Height Zone
The stepdown zone was created to bring heights down along the frontage in areas with
historic resources, potential shadow concerns, or adjacency to low-rise neighborhoods.
The stepdown zone can also be described as upper-story setbacks (or stepbacks). The
depth of the stepdown zone (or stepbacks) varies based on its location within the DTPP
area. This is represented graphically in the Height Regulations Map (DTPP Section 2.7, pg.
82), and is further described in the appendix (DTPP Section A1.2.2.B.7, pg. 161).

While the Plan provides minimum and maximum setbacks (which are applied to the lower
stories), it does not provide maximum upper-story setbacks (or stepbacks). Instead, an
increased stepback would further the intent of sensitive transitions to surrounding
developments and reducing shadow impacts.

Conclusion
Based on staff’s analysis of the DTPP, Design Alternative 1 could be applied to the project
at 1409 El Camino Real.

Applicability to Current Proposal
This analysis is in response to questions raised by the Commission at the November 1,
2016 hearing. It does not affect the project before the Commission, which utilized Design
Alternative 4 at the Commission’s direction.




                                             Page 2 of 2
            
 

                             Greystar ECR and Diller 
          Redesign Responsive to Comments of the Planning Commission 
 
During the November 1st Planning Commission meeting the overall comments provided by the 
commission were to, first, revise the one façade of the building that is along El Camino Real 
with refinements in massing and design to provide more variation and visual scale reduction; 
and second, provide a more interactive pedestrian experience. Accordingly, the Planning 
Commission specifically suggested the inclusion of protruding‐stoop residential units on the 
frontage of El Camino Real, along with related breaking down of the building forms on the 
longer portion of the El Camino Real façade. 

In response to the comments and suggestions of the Planning Commission, the redesigns of the 
building and its façade along El Camino Real have improved the overall project exterior design. 
These additional exterior changes are described in more detail below.  

The asymmetric El Camino Real façade design has been further augmented with an even 
greater variety of materials, colors, and rhythms with more articulation and three‐dimensional 
variations. This includes protruding‐stoop residential units inserted in the portion east of the 
central lobby, which have significantly more variety of form and materials compared to the 
former retail spaces in that longer section of the facade – including the smaller scale residential 
forms of various in‐and‐out plane changes along with a mixture of gray brick and multiple 
stucco colors. Further, these residential units with exposed entry stoops provide visual interest 
and dimensionality for the pedestrian experience, including ornamental planting within raised 
residential planters flanking the individual stairways and the streetscape. Additionally, the 
significant articulation of form within the three‐story building base includes varied materials 
and colors among the eight column bays in the portion east of the central lobby – including 
significant forms of brown brick with complementary window spandrels and the variety created 
by the protruding‐stoop residential units in this portion of the building. Plus, the inclusion of 
long planter boxes within the central recessed plaza establishes a visual tie‐in with the planters 
adjacent to the residential stoops, adding further to a more interactive and interesting 
pedestrian experience. 

                                                                                                        
 
 
            
 
 

The façade design refinements also include greater articulation in the middle and top portions 
of the building façade. This includes a significant reduction in the building massing at the top 
level corner adjacent the alley corner of El Camino Real, along with changes in the form and 
colors of the materials of the middle and building base portions of that corner – including the 
reduction of the building top by one story, highlighted window surrounds and spandrel in the 
middle section, and the significant corner anchored in three stories of brown brick. Further, the 
mid‐section of the middle and top portions of the building façade now include a recessed form 
with changes in coloration. These refinements serve to further breakdown the building forms 
and massing of the El Camino Real façade. 

In summary, these major changes in the building design and the El Camino Real façade result in 
the building massing and design with significantly more variation and visual scale reduction, 
along with a more interactive and interesting pedestrian experience. 

 




                                                                                                      
 
 
CD-Lindy Chan

Subject:                         FW: Please approve 1409 ECR & keep street-level retail


---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Adrian Brandt
Date: Wed, Nov 2, 2016 at 10:48 PM
Subject: Please approve 1409 ECR & keep street-level retail
To: pc@redwoodcity.org


Honorable RWC PC Members:

I watched your entire meeting last night on TV and have some comment regarding the unfortunate dithering you
displayed last night regarding the excellent proposed mixed use housing project at 1409 ECR.

Your failure to approve the project in order to explore removing the retail along the ECR frontage in hopes of
tinkering with height strikes me as a mistake. All the literature and studies point to having housing and retail
co-located vs. segregated as a good thing in terms of livability and walkability. The bottom floor of such
housing projects fronting ECR *should* offer something for passersby on the sidewalk and roadway to visually
and/or actively engage with.

One of you behind the push for eliminating the retail and seeking what can quite obviously only be at most a
token handful of ECR-facing stoop-equipped units in its place even made a comment to the effect of that
(paraphrasing) "residents can walk downtown for their retail." While this is strictly speaking true, it's also true
that this would create more of a less attractive all-housing "ghetto" devoid of any sidewalk interactivity for
nonresidents depriving project-area residents of the potential walk-score-boosting & preserving convenience of
some integrated nearby shops and/or possible eating and/or drinking establishments which do not require a trip
downtown. (Don't worry -- downtown is and will still do just fine; the relatively small square footage won't
hurt downtown a bit ... and that's clearly not the motivating issue those of you seeking ECR-fronting stoop units
are concerned with anyway.)

In the view of modern urbanists -- which I share -- we should be striving for "activating" ground-floor retail
(convenience stores, services, etc.) to line ECR, and not creating (relatively) "dead" stretches of all-
residential. At least not *on* ECR. So eliminating the retail is exactly the wrong move. And for what? Vague
hopes of some reduced or varied height along the two ECR-paralleling rooflines? Really? Height done right is
fine ... and I believe the revised proposal before you last night was GREAT! I am in complete agreement with
Isabella Chu's comments to you last night, urging that you approve the project as it was before you.

The project revisions looked very good to me and I was quite disappointed to see a number of you seemingly
timidly dithering about in your expressed comments and thoughts, which seemed alarmingly unfocused and
unclear. A number of you came across timid and afraid and undecided/indecisive about what you wanted.

I confess, I've only sporadically watched your meetings ... but I truly felt sympathy for the applicant ... because I
can't imagine how expensive and frustrating it must be for an applicant developer to be hearing the kind of
unfocused subjective and wishy-washy feedback with little to no clarity of what exactly is wanted / needed to
receive approval so far into the process. Wow.


                                                          1
I am well aware you are facing a barrage of reactionary knee-jerk NIMBY opposition as usual from the
(generally) very comfortably-housed and affluent ... and even from some renters who very sadly mistakenly
believe that by fighting multi-unit market rate housing production along with the NIMBY homeowners many
presumably aspire someday to be, that they are somehow not making the housing affordability crisis worse for
everyone. For an increasing number of NIMBYs, it seems they have over-broadly made sustainable infill TOD
housing projects into a scapegoat proxy for all that irritates them. It is my view that trying to appease this angry
NIMBY faction with anything less than outright project decimation or denial turns into a no-win, never-ending
game of "objection whack-a-mole."

Going forward, please find the courage not to screw this up and kill or hobble this great proposal! This is an
urgently-needed, great-looking mixed-use HOUSING project with inclusionary BMR in a great TOD
location. I fear we are in very real danger of losing it with seemingly interminable and unpredictable off-the-
cuff on-the-fly musing about this or that possible token feel-good aesthetic tinkering to make yourselves feel
like you "won." (Psssst ... you've already won!) The project is and looks great as it is right now!

Whether the stoop-equipped units or retail/commercial ultimately fronts ECR, I urge you to come to your senses
and approve this project ASAP.

Kind regards,
Adrian Brandt
257 Grand St.




                                                         2
CD-Lindy Chan

Subject:                        FW: 1409 El Camino


 
 
From: Kris Johnson  
Sent: Thursday, December 01, 2016 11:07 AM 
To: GRP‐Planning Commissioners <PC@redwoodcity.org> 
Cc: GRP‐City Council <council@redwoodcity.org>; MGR‐Aaron Aknin <aaknin@redwoodcity.org>; CD‐Lindy Chan 
<lchan@redwoodcity.org> 
Subject: 1409 El Camino 

Dear Planning Commissioners,
Thank you for the recent decision to return the Greystar IV project at 1409 El Camino back for revisions. While
I’m relieved that the project in its current state was rejected, I am deeply disappointed that there wasn’t more
analysis and critique of the overall massing of the project given the tremendous impacts that it will impose on
the immediate area. The Architectural Advisory Committee (AAC) originally voiced similar massing concerns
on July 7, 2016 and these concerns were echoed in the City’s staff report on this project. In my opinion,
concerns about massing - as it relates to aesthetics, impacts and population density - have been woefully
under-addressed by the developer.

Aesthetically this building falls far short of what was envisioned in the Downtown Precise Plan (DTPP). The
project’s lack of deep set-backs, dramatic height variations and welcoming public spaces have been pared
down to meet the minimum architectural guidelines in order to maximize square footage. As we have seen
before (e.g., 601 Marshall) simply changing the building disposition type is an opportunistic, unimaginative
solution to addressing such massing concerns and is a shell game that our City allows because of
inadequacies of our DTPP. While I understand the developer’s desire to hold onto his profit margin, it is the
responsibility of City officials to ensure that such motives don’t outweigh the needs of the greater community..

In regards to the building’s density impacts, as highlighted in my presentation to you on Nov 15th, the traffic
data is suspect due to its conflicting and curious numbers (less traffic in 2016 as compared to the 2010 DTPP
EIR?) and insufficient downtown and residential intersections were studied. Also, despite multiple requests for
public information to City staff, I have yet to see proof that such a significant hyper-concentration of
development (300,000 sq ft office, 950+ residential units) was projected or planned by the Environmental
Impact Report (EIR) to exist all within two blocks of the El Camino and Jefferson intersection.
In the end, I return to my overriding question as a resident: how does this building’s benefits outweigh the
negative impacts? I have yet to see any evidence - fiscal or otherwise - that Redwood City has something to
gain from a project as tall and as massive as 1409 El Camino/Greystar IV, in an area of our City that is already
drowning in high-density residential development. And of course, the bigger the project, the bigger the impacts.
To put it in context, 1409 El Camino project is the size of both Box buildings combined, and almost three times
the size of the residential project that was just approved at 1305 El Camino (Greystar III). This is stunning that
this could go forward without further due diligence and analysis of the impacts.
I am not opposed to high-density development in Redwood City, but I am opposed to development run amuck,
which appears to be our current state now that we have strayed so far from the DTPP vision. In the interest of
helping to advance solutions rather than problems, I researched and found another Greystar project that, in my
opinion, would be a much better fit for El Camino in Redwood City. It’s a mixed-use project located at 801 El
Camino in Mountain View — a mid-Peninsula city similar to Redwood City in many ways. This Greystar project
was approved in 2015, having been revised following community opposition to the original plan. Construction is
now well underway and the project is located in their Downtown Precise Plan. I’ve included some renderings
below of the project for your consideration.

                                                        1
Perhaps Planning Commissioners believe it’s not in their purview to push back on building heights or massing
because of what zoning permits. However, until we start seeing more appropriate and creative buildings like
the Mountain View / Greystar project (which is also being modeled as appropriate in other Grand Boulevard
communities), I and many others in the community will continue to aggressively oppose this project throughout
its approval process. This opposition may also include potential legal challenges given the project’s inevitable
impacts that are currently being skirted or ignored. Let's not make another mistake on El Camino like we
recently did with Greystar III at 1305 El Camino.
It appears that we have largely lost control of our DTPP as developers take full advantage of its
permissiveness with large, mediocre projects that offer limited community benefits or affordable housing. I am,
however, very encouraged by the recent efforts of City staff, the Planning Commission and City Council
towards getting more appropriate and inspired projects. Sadly, the Greystar IV project makes a joke of the
DTPP vision, while also demeaning our recent accomplishments. Until the developer offers a new and more
suitable project for Redwood City that is similar to the one in Mountain View, I and many others cannot support
their efforts.

I met with Jonathan Hayes from Greystar earlier this year and shared our community concerns. Unfortunately,
it appears that our key points have largely fallen on deaf ears. While we appreciate the affordable housing
impact fees and the small contribution to Habitat to the Humanity, they are woefully insufficient in magnitude to
compensate for adverse impacts. We sincerely hope that our feedback will be taken more seriously by our
Planning Commission the next time you revisit this project, as you do have the best interests of Redwood City
at heart.
Thank you for your consideration,
Kris Johnson


Greystar project in Mountain View project announcement:
http://news.theregistrysf.com/greystar-mixed-use-project-okd-mountain-view-amidst-strong-apartment-market/


                                     Redwood City                                  Mountain View
 Site               1409 El Camino                                  801 El Camino

 Plan               Downtown Precise Plan                           Downtown Precise Plan

 Developer          Greystar                                        Greystar

 Site Size          1.64 acres                                      2.38 acres

 Floors             8                                               4

 Units              315 market rate, 35 BMR                         164 market rate

 Retail             5,900 sq ft                                     10,800 sq ft

 Community          250k to Habitat for Humanity, inclusionary      $3.7m (relocation expenses, below-market
 Benefits           BMR units in exchange for impact fee            lease for retail tenants, public plaza)



801 El Camino / Mtn View renderings:




                                                        2
3
1409 El Camino / Redwood City renderings:




                                            4
5
December 15, 2016

Mr. Jonathan Hayes
Greystar
221 Main Street, Suite 1280
San Francisco, CA 94105

Re: Response to Public Comments on the Traffic Study Prepared for the Proposed
    Residential and Retail Development at 1409 El Camino Real in Redwood City,
    California

Dear Mr. Hayes:

This letter provides our responses to public comments from the City of Redwood City Planning
Commission meeting on 11/1/16 regarding the 1409 El Camino Real Residential and Retail
Development Traffic Study.1

Mathew Self (~2:34)
    1. Comment: “There is an unprecedented collection of housing in [the Project] area. We talk
       about it being a mixed-use development area, but really, it’s not, it’s a single-use
       development area. …The area …is about 5% of the land area of the Downtown Precise
       Plan, but it is proposed to have 40% of the entire housing buildout for the Downtown
       Precise Plan. …I’m in favor of transit-oriented development and downtown development,
       but I’m worried we have too massive a concentration in this one particular area and we
       need to think about the whole area and not just this one project. …In particular, I’m worried
       that traffic will be worse as a result of this. That housing generates more traffic than say
       offices, right? Offices you go in once and you leave once. A house you also commute
       once, but you also go shopping, you go to school, you do all these other things, right? So,
       we have the potential to have more concentration of traffic in this area than the Downtown
       Precise Plan anticipated. So, I don’t think we can say that just because things line up with
       the Downtown Precise Plan that we’re sure it will match the EIR projections. I think we
       actually need to take a look- given this concentration of housing are we actually getting the
       result we expected? If you look at uh- focusing on the housing, the traffic study basically
       says that because the amount of projected traffic is consistent with the Downtown EIR
       we’re okay, but I don’t think that’s okay. If you look at the numbers the report says that it
       adds relatively little traffic to each of the studied intersections, but it’s actually not relatively
       little, it’s something like 10-15% of the Downtown Precise Plan amount, which is what
       you’d expect, it’s actually more than you’d expect for one project. I mean we have a dozen
       projects going on, so if each of them did 10% that’s more than 100%, so we need to look
       at these traffic reports in more detail.”




1
 Video of Planning Commission hearing available at: http://redwoodcity-
ca.granicus.com/MediaPlayer.php?view_id=3&clip_id=2173
Mr. Jonathan Hayes
December 15, 2016
Page 2 of 6



       Response: The Downtown Precise Plan (DPP) allows for the development of up to 2,500
       residential dwelling units. According to the City of Redwood City2, a total of 2,321 new
       dwelling units (d.u.) are anticipated within the DPP area to date, including reserved below
       market rate units and projects that have been built, are under construction, have been
       approved, and have been proposed (including the Greystar IV project at 1409 El Camino
       Real). Of this total, 1,058 new d.u. are anticipated within the area bounded by Jefferson
       Avenue, El Camino Real, Maple Street and the Caltrain tracks.

       The DPP does not specify the precise locations within the DPP area where the new
       residential developments would occur, but rather allows for up to 2,500 new residential
       dwelling units to occur throughout the DPP area with certain restrictions as to height,
       ground floor uses, and specialized residential uses. The proposed and approved
       downtown development to date, including the proposed project at 1409 El Camino Real,
       fits within the development assumptions evaluated in the DPP EIR, and the City requires a
       project-specific transportation impact analysis to confirm the assumptions. Moreover,
       recent traffic counts at study intersections evaluated in the DPP EIR show that current
       (2016) traffic volumes are well below the estimated 2030 cumulative traffic volume
       projections presented in the DPP EIR.3

       The Downtown Precise Plan is a relatively small area, such that trips to and from the
       planned downtown developments are expected to use mostly the same roadways and
       result in similar impacts regardless of their exact location within the Precise Plan area.
       Thus, it can be concluded that the DPP DEIR, as confirmed by the project-specific
       transportation analysis required by the City, adequately disclosed the effects of the
       residential developments anticipated near the Greystar IV project.

       In addition, a trip generation study was recently conducted for the Greystar I residential
       development at 299 Franklin Street, which is across the street from the proposed Greystar
       IV project. The study showed that the completed Greystar I project is achieving a high
       percentage of alternative mode use (approximately 42% and 37% during the AM and PM
       peak hours, respectively),4 which is greater than the 20 to 25% assumed in the DPP EIR.5
       The project’s proximity to the Caltrain station is a key factor affecting the mode split. This
       trip generation study also shows that the Greystar I residential development generates
       fewer vehicle trips than assumed in the DPP EIR.

Kris Johnston (~2:45:30)
    1. Comment: “I have some questions about the Traffic Study that was done on this Project.
       If you look at the diagram up there - number one with the question mark next to it is the

2 Downtown Precise Plan MAD Caps Summary, dated 12/12/16, which is attached.
3 Traffic Study Addendum for 1409 El Camino Real Residential Development, Redwood City, California,
dated April 29, 2016; 603 Jefferson, Redwood City, California – Traffic Study Addendum, dated April 20,
2016; Traffic Study Addendum for 801 Brewster Avenue Residential Development, Redwood City,
California, dated June 27, 2016, all of which are available on file at the City of Redwood City.
4 299 Franklin Street Apartments Trip Generation Study, dated August 5, 2016, which is attached
5 Table 9.7, “Project Trip Generation”, in the Redwood City Downtown Precise Plan Draft EIR, dated August

26, 2010, shows that transit reduction and internalization rates total 19.6% and 25.1% during the AM and
PM peak hours, respectively..
Mr. Jonathan Hayes
December 15, 2016
Page 3 of 6



          intersection of Broadway and El Camino, which I’m really surprised that the intersection
          wasn’t studied, but if you look at the map it doesn’t even have Broadway crossing El
          Camino on the map, so maybe that’s why it wasn’t studied.”

          Response: The intersection of El Camino Real and Broadway was inadvertently left off
          the map shown on Figures 1, and 5-10. The maps have been corrected and are attached.
          Nonetheless, this intersection was studied in the DPP EIR and taken into account in the
          evaluation of the proposed project. The proposed project at 1409 El Camino Real is
          expected to add 14 and 17 trips to this intersection during the AM and PM peak hours,
          respectively. The proposed project trips fall within the DPP trips at this intersection (277
          and 438 trips during the AM and PM peak hours, respectively). The project trips are
          expected to have a minimal effect on intersection operations and do not warrant further
          analysis.

      2. Comment: “If you look at question mark number two and number three, there’s traffic
         comparisons coming out of Downtown crossing over west of El Camino and those
         numbers are very similar, one is Jefferson Ave and one is Roosevelt Ave. For those of you
         that know Redwood City pretty well, Jefferson Ave will take you up to 280, Roosevelt Ave
         will take you into a neighborhood. How can those numbers be even remotely similar?
         One’s a feeder into an expressway and one’s a feeder into a neighborhood.”

          Response: Roosevelt Avenue serves as a collector street providing access to the
          approximately two square mile area between Jefferson Avenue and Woodside Road,
          which includes numerous schools, parks, places of worship, a community center, and
          other local destinations. In addition, Roosevelt Avenue connects with Alameda de Las
          Pulgas, a major connector street that extends from Menlo Park to San Mateo. While
          Jefferson Avenue provides access to I-280 via its connection to Farm Hill Boulevard, it is
          not the only route leading to I-280. Woodside Road also provides access to I-280 from the
          project site. The trip distribution pattern for this project6 show more project trips on streets
          with freeway connections (e.g. Jefferson Avenue and Woodside Road) and fewer trips on
          streets that serve local destinations (e.g. Roosevelt Avenue).

          The trip distribution assumptions used in the 1409 El Camino Real Transportation Impact
          Analysis are consistent with the project trip distribution pattern shown in the DPP EIR.7
          The trip distribution pattern presented in the DPP EIR was developed using the citywide
          travel demand forecasting model and appropriate for this project.

      3. Comment: “If you look at number four with a question mark next to it, that’s Maple and El
         Camino, the closest stop light to the Project that is not even on the Traffic Study. How is
         that possible? The closest stop light to the Project is not even on the Traffic Study. A little
         head-scratching.”

          Response: The intersection of El Camino Real and Maple Street was not evaluated in the
          DPP EIR or the Greystar IV traffic study because the traffic volume on Maple Street is
          relatively low and the intersection operates well with low delay. This intersection was
          evaluated for the Greystar III project at 1305 El Camino, which showed that the
6   1409 El Camino Real Residential and Retail Development Traffic Study, dated April 29, 2016, Figure 5.
7   Redwood City Downtown Precise Plan EIR, Figure 9.7.
Mr. Jonathan Hayes
December 15, 2016
Page 4 of 6



       intersection operated at LOS A and B during the AM and PM peak hours, respectively,
       based on traffic counts conducted in 2015.8

       Nonetheless, in response to this comment and to be conservative, new traffic counts were
       conducted at the intersection of El Camino Real and Maple Street on November 9, 2016
       using appropriate methodology. An updated analysis of intersection operations for El
       Camino and Maple Street was conducted based on the new count data. The analysis
       included the following scenarios: existing, existing plus project, background, and
       background plus project conditions. The background scenarios include trips generated
       from approved but not yet completed developments and proposed developments in the
       area identified by the City and listed in the project’s traffic study.9 The analysis results
       confirm that, as expected, the intersection currently operates at LOS B during the AM and
       PM peak hours, and would continue to operate at the same level under all scenarios
       evaluated. The new traffic counts and level of service calculations are attached.

    4. Comment: “Besides the individual intersections questionably chosen, I’m a little struck by
       the PM volume summary, which I’m going to focus quickly on two intersections: El Camino
       and Jefferson, and Middlefield and Jefferson. One intersection in 2016 showed 800
       vehicles less than 2010, and the other intersection was 380 vehicle trips less than in 2010.
       I don’t know- I’ve seen a lot of traffic studies in my time- but I don’t know how that is even
       remotely possible that those numbers came in at the way they did.”

       Response: At the intersection of El Camino Real and Jefferson Avenue, traffic volumes
       during the PM peak hour decreased by almost 800 vehicles (from 5,280 to 4,483) between
       2010 and 2016. Smaller traffic volume decreases were also noted at the intersection of
       Middlefield Road and Jefferson Avenue (-379 vehicles, from 2,244 to 1,865 and at the
       intersection of Middlefield Road and Main Street (-206 vehicles, from 1,762 to 1,556).10
       Recent traffic counts conducted for other downtown projects also have shown decreases
       in traffic volumes compared to the year 2010.11 At the intersection of Jefferson Avenue
       and Veterans Boulevard, traffic counts in March 2016 showed that the PM peak-hour
       volume declined by nearly 1,000 vehicles compared to the 2010 volumes at this
       intersection. The count was repeated in April 2016 to verify the accuracy of the count. The
       April 2016 traffic volume was approximately 1,100 vehicles lower that in 2010. Thus, traffic
       counts conducted on multiple dates in 2016 are lower than the 2010 count. Decreases in
       traffic volume from the year 2010 also have been found at the intersections of Main Street
       and Veterans Boulevard, Main Street and Bradford Street, El Camino Real and Whipple,
       Veterans Boulevard and Whipple Avenue, and Veterans Boulevard and Brewster Avenue.



8 El Camino Real & Wilson Residential Development Traffic Study, dated February 17, 2015, Table 2, which
is available on file at the City of Redwood City.
9 1409 El Camino Real Residential and Retail Development Traffic Study, dated April 29, 2016, pages 12

and 15.
10 Traffic Study Addendum for 1409 El Camino Real Residential Development, Redwood City, California,

dated April 29, 2016, Tables 1 and 2.
11 603 Jefferson, Redwood City, California – Traffic Study Addendum, dated April 20, 2016 and Traffic

Study Addendum for 801 Brewster Avenue Residential Development, Redwood City, California, dated June
27, 2016, which are available on file at the City of Redwood City.
Mr. Jonathan Hayes
December 15, 2016
Page 5 of 6



   5. Comment: “Part of the issue is that the traffic study was done on one day and it was done
      on a day when Cañada College was not in session. That’s over 6,000 students and over
      200 faculty and staff, and their traffic was not even accounted for in the one-day Traffic
      Study that was done for a 300,000-square foot residential building.”

       Response: Cañada College is located approximately four miles to the west of the project
       site. Due to the distance, a minimal number of Cañada College trips are expected to travel
       through the study intersections. Regardless of whether Cañada College was in session or
       not, it is not expected to affect the traffic study conclusions. Nonetheless, a review of the
       Cañada College calendar revealed that Cañada College was in session with all normally
       scheduled classes on March 22, 2016 when traffic counts were conducted for the Greystar
       IV project at 1409 El Camino Real. As shown on the attached calendar, Cañada College
       was on spring recess from March 27, 2016 through April 2, 2016. There is no evidence
       that the traffic volumes counted on March 22, 2016 do not reflect typical traffic conditions.

   6. Comment: “So, in closing, I have a couple of questions: Where is the data that shows our
      DTPP and our EIR project this much development or 40% of the residential units in this
      concentrated area of Downtown? Didn’t the EIR presume that it would be more spread out
      over the entire 183 acre DTPP? Why was the Traffic Study conducted on only one day?
      And why did the Traffic Study for this Project not study the areas most impacted by DTPP
      development and that’s the nearby intersections of the neighborhood just across the street
      from this Project? All of the Traffic Study is west of El Camino, not one intersection east of
      El Camino, arguably most affected by the traffic from this Project, was even included in the
      Traffic Study. I’m just flummoxed by that.”

       Response: See response #1 to Matthew Self regarding the comment related to the
       location of the residential uses within the DTPP. Please see response #3 to Kris
       Johnston, above, regarding the comment about the timing of the traffic counts. With
       respect to the comment that “not one intersection east of El Camino, arguably most
       affected by the traffic from this Project, was even included in the Traffic Study” it is not
       clear which intersections the commenter is referring to but we have reviewed the
       intersections studies and conclude the evaluation was appropriate and complete.

Please do not hesitate to contact us if there are any further questions regarding the 1409 El
Camino Real Residential and Retail Development Traffic Study.

Sincerely,
HEXAGON TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS, INC.




Michelle Hunt
Vice President

Enclosures
Downtown Precise Plan MAD Caps Summary
Mr. Jonathan Hayes
December 15, 2016
Page 6 of 6



Figure 1, Site Location and Study Intersections
Figure 5, Project Trip Distribution and Net Trip Assignment
Figure 6, Existing Lane Configurations
Figure 7, Existing Traffic Volumes
Figure 8, Background Traffic Volumes
Figure 9, Existing Plus Project Traffic Volumes
Figure 10, Background Plus Project Traffic Volumes
Cañada College Calendar
August 5, 2016

Mr. Victor Gonzalez
Greystar
221 Main Street, Suite 1280
San Francisco, CA 94105

Re: 299 Franklin Street Apartments Trip Generation Study

Dear Mr. Gonzalez:

Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. conducted a trip generation study for the recently
completed apartment complex at 299 Franklin Street in downtown Redwood City, California. The
purpose of the study was to quantify the number of peak-hour vehicle trips generated by the
residential development and to measure the usage of alternative modes of transportation.

Project Description
The project site is bordered by Franklin Street on the south, Monroe Street on the east, Wilson
Street on the west, and the Caltrain tracks on the north. The development has seven stories and
contains a total of 304 dwelling units. The site is currently 90 percent occupied. It includes the
following amenities that reduce residents’ vehicle trips and green-house gas emissions:

       •       Bike parking in secure storage rooms with a self-service bicycle repair station
       •       Electric vehicle charging
       •       Fitness center
       •       Dry cleaning pick-up/delivery and parcel concierge service
       •       Pool and spa deck
       •       Roof deck with barbecue lounge
       •       Business and resident lounges with Wi-Fi and entertainment space

In addition, the project location provides many transportation options. The site is only about one-
quarter mile from the Redwood City Caltrain Station and Transit Center. In addition to Caltrain and
numerous SamTrans bus routes, several local employers, such as Facebook and Google, operate
shuttles with stops within walking distance of the project.

The project’s downtown location in a dense area with extensive retail and commercial uses
effectively renders it part of a large-scale mixed-use development. The proximity of such
complementary uses promotes pedestrian and bicycle travel. Bicycle travel is facilitated by the
presence of on-street bike lanes and sharrows (bike routes) on many downtown streets.
Sidewalks are present throughout the Redwood City downtown area and crosswalks are provided
at all intersections in the downtown core. Pedestrian volumes are high, and the area is viewed as
a pedestrian-friendly environment.

Count Methodology
Counts were conducted from 7-9 AM and from 4-6 PM on Wednesday, July 27, 2016. The counts
tracked vehicle trips in and out of the two project driveways as well as project-generated traffic
Mr. Victor Gonzalez
August 5, 2016
Page 2 of 5



entering and exiting the on-street parking spaces on the adjacent streets. The numbers of
occupants in each vehicle were counted to allow measurement of the average vehicle occupancy
and the total number of person trips generated by the project.

In addition, count staff were stationed on public sidewalks on each side of the development to
track the number of pedestrian and bike trips to and from the project site. Each individual was
counted as a separate trip, so a group of three people walking together were counted as three
pedestrian trips. Count staff were instructed to count persons who park on street and then walk
into the project only as a vehicle trip and not a pedestrian trip in order to avoid double counting
people entering and exiting the site to and from the street.

Observed Mode Split
Table 1 shows the break-down of the person trips generated by the 299 Franklin apartments by
mode. The site was observed to generate a total of 130 person trips during the AM peak hour
(7:45 – 8:45 AM) and 82 person trips during the PM peak hour (5:00 – 6:00 PM). Roughly 60
percent of the person trips were made by automobile, including single occupant vehicles (52 to
54%) and carpool (6 to 10%). The average vehicle occupancy (total vehicle occupants/total
vehicles) ranged from 1.06 to 1.08.

While the count measured the proportion of trips made by alternative modes, transit usage to and
from the project site was not measured separately. Residents who walked or rode their bikes to or
from the Redwood City Caltrain station or other transit services were counted as pedestrians or
bicycles, respectively. In total, approximately 40 percent of the person trips to and from the site
were made by alternative modes (pedestrian, bike, and transit). The majority of the trips by
alternative mode were by pedestrians (35 to 38%) including those persons walking to transit. Bike
trips (including bike to transit) accounted for one to four percent of the total person trips.

It should be noted that the alternative mode share observed at the 299 Franklin apartments (37 to
42%) far exceeds the vehicle trip reductions assumed in the Downtown Precise Plan DEIR (20 to
25% total for transit and pedestrian/bike trips internal to Downtown). It can thus be concluded that
the Downtown Precise Plan DEIR presented a conservative (high) estimate of the potential traffic
impacts associated with the residential development at 299 Franklin Street.
Mr. Victor Gonzalez
August 5, 2016
Page 3 of 5



Table 1
Observed Mode Split at 299 Franklin Apartments




Trip Generation Comparison
Table 2 shows the actual vehicle trips generated by the 299 Franklin apartments compared to the
project trip estimates based on published trip rates. Our counts show that the site generated 72
vehicle trips during the AM peak hour and 48 vehicle trips during the PM peak hour. In
comparison, based on the average trip rates for apartments published in the Institute of
Transportation Engineers publication, Trip Generation Manual, 9th Edition, a typical apartment of
equal size is expected to generate 140 vehicle trips during the AM peak hour and 170 vehicle trips
during the PM peak hour. After applying the downtown mixed-use reduction and transit reduction
as assumed in the Downtown Precise Plan DEIR, the project site would be expected to generate
113 vehicle trips during the AM peak hour and 127 vehicle trips during the PM peak hour. The
actual vehicle trips generated by this site are 36 to 62% lower than predicted by ITE. The high
share of alternative mode use observed at the project site explains only part of the difference in
vehicle trips. The total person trips generated by this site are also less than the ITE rates predict,
especially in the PM peak hour, when ITE predicts 170 vehicle trips (and a very small number of
additional person trips via alternative modes) while we counted only 82 person trips in total
including all modes.
Mr. Victor Gonzalez
August 5, 2016
Page 4 of 5



Table 2
Observed Versus Predicted Vehicle Trip Generation at 299 Franklin Apartments




We can only speculate about the reasons why the total person trips generated by this site are
lower than a typical suburban apartment development. One reason that may partly explain why
the person trips are low is that we did our counts in the summer when there are no school trips,
and some residents may be away on vacation. The trips at this site may be less because some
residents may work at home and telecommute. Another possible explanation for the difference is
that the resident demographics for this site may differ from the typical suburban apartment sites
reflected in the ITE trip rates. Perhaps there are fewer families or fewer residents per unit and so
fewer total person trips generated per unit at this site than for a typical apartment. Perhaps, the
residents at this site tend to have later work hours and/or go out more after work and thus fewer
residents may return home during the typical commute peak hour.
Mr. Victor Gonzalez
August 5, 2016
Page 5 of 5




Conclusions
The 299 Franklin apartments are achieving a high percentage of alternative mode use
(approximately 40%). The site location near transit and complementary downtown uses and on-
site amenities are effective in reducing the project’s vehicle trips and greenhouse gas emissions.
Furthermore, the trip generation study shows that Downtown Precise Plan EIR presented a
conservative (high) estimate of the trips generated by the project site.

Sincerely,
HEXAGON TRANSPORTATION CONSULTANTS, INC




Michelle Hunt
Vice President and Principal Associate
www.idaxdata.com

                                                          El Camino Real
                                                              Maple St
                                                                                                                                                                             Date: 11/09/2016
                            N                                         Peak Hour                                                                                       Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                        Peak Hour: 7:30 AM to 8:30 AM




                                                                          1,480


                                                                                               1,289
                                         El Camino Real


                                                                  1,419

                                                                              53

                                                                                           8




                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                    Maple St

                                                                                                                                    49
                                                                                                                                                                                                        32
                                                                                                                                    69                   118                                                                     0
                                                                          TEV: 2,907




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                          PHF: 0.97                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                         130
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                   El Camino Real
                                                                                                                                                               HV %:      PHF
                                                                                           1,232

                                                                                                         77
                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                     EB          -          -
                                                                                                                                                     WB        0.8%       0.69
                                                                          1,488


                                                                                             1,309




                                                                                                                                                     NB        2.7%       0.94
                                                                                                                                                     SB        2.6%       0.93
                                                                                                                                                TOTAL          2.5%       0.97
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                                         0                                                         Maple St                                          El Camino Real                       El Camino Real
          Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                        15-min       Rolling
                                Eastbound                                                       Westbound                                                Northbound                        Southbound
            Start                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total      One Hour
                       UT       LT    TH                           RT              UT           LT    TH                            RT          UT        LT    TH        RT      UT        LT    TH         RT
          7:00 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            11         0                         3       0         0      186       14     1          4      240      0             459           0
          7:15 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            15         0                     12          0         0      242       17     5          6      338      0             635           0
          7:30 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            26         0                     17          0         0      302       10     3         10      352      0             720           0
          7:45 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            15         0                         9       0         0      300       22     1         12      343      0             702         2,516
          8:00 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            16         0                     11          0         0      304       21     3         14      383      0             752         2,809
          8:15 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            12         0                     12          0         0      326       24     1         17      341      0             733         2,907
          8:30 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            16         0                         3       0         0      266       22     1         14      332      0             654         2,841
          8:45 AM       0        0                        0          0                0            17         0                     10          0         0      267       22     2         10      304      0             632         2,771
        Count Total     0        0                        0          0                0            128        0                     77          0         0     2,193     152     17        87      2,633    0            5,287          0
                All     0        0                        0          0                0            69         0                     49          0         0     1,232      77     8         53      1,419    0            2,907          0
        Peak
                HV      0        0                        0          0                0              1        0                         0       0         0          34    1      0          1         37    0              74           0
        Hour
               HV%      -        -                        -           -                -           1%         -                     0%          -         -      3%       1%      0%        2%         3%        -         3%            0
       Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

          Interval               Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                           Bicycles                                         Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
            Start      EB        WB      NB      SB                                            Total          EB                        WB         NB           SB        Total   East            West      North    South               Total
          7:00 AM       0            0                        7                   12               19         0                             0        1           1         2          8             0                7            1       16
          7:15 AM       0            4                        7                   6                17         0                             3        1           2         6          2             0                8            0       10
          7:30 AM       0            0                        9                   11               20         0                             2        2           0         4          6             0                6            0       12
          7:45 AM       0            0                        9                   8                17         0                             0        0           1         1          3             0                6            0          9
          8:00 AM       0            0                        6                   4                10         0                             0        0           1         1          7             0                7            0       14
          8:15 AM       0            1                        11                  15               27         0                             0        2           0         2          2             0                13           0       15
          8:30 AM       0            0                        9                   16               25         0                             0        5           2         7          1             0                6            0          7
          8:45 AM       0            0                        10                  10               20         0                             0        5           0         5          2             0                1            0          3
        Count Total     0            5                        68                  82            155           0                             5        16          7         28      31               0                54           1       86
          Peak Hr       0            1                        35                  38               74         0                             2        4           2         8       18               0                32           0       50




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                                    deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

       Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                                      0                         Maple St                       El Camino Real                   El Camino Real
          Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
            Start                Eastbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Southbound               Total   One Hour
                        UT       LT        TH    RT     UT      LT        TH    RT     UT        LT        TH    RT     UT        LT        TH    RT
          7:00 AM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        7        0   0          0        12       0     19        0
          7:15 AM        0        0        0        0   0        3        0        1   0          0        7        0   0          0        6        0     17        0
          7:30 AM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        9        0   0          0        11       0     20        0
          7:45 AM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        9        0   0          1        7        0     17        73
          8:00 AM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        6        0   0          0        4        0     10        64
          8:15 AM        0        0        0        0   0        1        0        0   0          0        10       1   0          0        15       0     27        74
          8:30 AM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        9        0   0          1        15       0     25        79
          8:45 AM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        9        1   0          0        10       0     20        82
        Count Total      0        0        0        0   0        4        0        1   0          0        66       2   0          2        80       0    155        0
         Peak Hour       0        0        0        0   0        1        0        0   0          0        34       1   0          1        37       0     74        0


       Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                                      0                         Maple St                       El Camino Real                   El Camino Real
          Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
            Start                Eastbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Southbound               Total   One Hour
                          LT          TH        RT       LT          TH        RT       LT            TH        RT       LT            TH        RT
          7:00 AM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          1         0           0          1         0         2         0
          7:15 AM            0        0         0           3        0         0           0          1         0           1          1         0         6         0
          7:30 AM            0        0         0           2        0         0           0          2         0           0          0         0         4         0
          7:45 AM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          0         0           1          0         0         1         13
          8:00 AM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          0         0           1          0         0         1         12
          8:15 AM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          2         0           0          0         0         2         8
          8:30 AM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          4         1           0          2         0         7         11
          8:45 AM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          2         3           0          0         0         5         15
        Count Total          0        0         0           5        0         0           0          12        4           3          4         0         28        0
         Peak Hour           0        0         0           2        0         0           0          4         0           2          0         0         8         0
       Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                         deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                          El Camino Real
                                                              Maple St
                                                                                                                                                                                Date: 11/09/2016
                            N                                         Peak Hour                                                                                          Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                           Peak Hour: 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM




                                                                          1,356


                                                                                                1,425
                                         El Camino Real


                                                                  1,289



                                                                                           16
                                                                              51




                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                    Maple St

                                                                                                                                    58
                                                                                                                                                                                                         49
                                                                                                                                    183                  241                                                                      0
                                                                          TEV: 3,028




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                          PHF: 0.97                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                         131
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                   El Camino Real
                                                                                                                                                               HV %:       PHF
                                                                                           1,351

                                                                                                         80
                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                     EB          -           -
                                                                                                                                                     WB        0.4%        0.91
                                                                          1,472


                                                                                             1,431




                                                                                                                                                     NB        0.6%        0.95
                                                                                                                                                     SB        1.0%        0.96
                                                                                                                                                TOTAL          0.8%        0.97
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                                         0                                                         Maple St                                          El Camino Real                        El Camino Real
          Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                         15-min       Rolling
                                Eastbound                                                        Westbound                                               Northbound                         Southbound
            Start                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total      One Hour
                       UT       LT    TH                           RT              UT            LT    TH                           RT          UT        LT    TH         RT      UT        LT    TH         RT
          4:00 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            40         0                     14          0         0      304        21     5         12      293      0             689           0
          4:15 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            35         0                     15          0         0      333        15     2          9      320      0             729           0
          4:30 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            54         0                     13          0         0      354        15     7         12      330      0             785           0
          4:45 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            34         0                     13          0         0      369        20     6         16      279      0             737         2,940
          5:00 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            44         0                     13          0         0      331        17     1         12      337      0             755         3,006
          5:15 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            52         0                     14          0         0      313        25     4         11      319      0             738         3,015
          5:30 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            48         0                     17          0         0      344        24     4         11      305      0             753         2,983
          5:45 PM       0        0                        0          0                0            39         0                     14          0         0      363        14     7         17      328      0             782         3,028
        Count Total     0        0                        0          0                0            346        0                     113         0         0     2,711      151     36        100     2,511    0            5,968          0
                All     0        0                        0          0                0            183        0                     58          0         0     1,351       80     16        51      1,289    0            3,028          0
        Peak
                HV      0        0                        0          0                0              1        0                         0       0         0          7      1      0          1         13    0              23           0
        Hour
               HV%      -        -                        -           -                -           1%         -                     0%          -         -      1%        1%      0%        2%         1%        -         1%            0
       Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

          Interval               Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                           Bicycles                                          Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
            Start      EB        WB      NB      SB                                             Total         EB                        WB         NB           SB         Total   East            West      North    South               Total
          4:00 PM       0            0                        6                   8                14         0                             1        2           0          3          7             0                14           0       21
          4:15 PM       0            0                        4                   9                13         0                             2        2           0          4          0             0                14           0       14
          4:30 PM       0            0                        5                   8                13         0                             3        2           3          8          8             0                12           0       20
          4:45 PM       0            1                        7                   2                10         0                             0        0           1          1       11               0                13           0       24
          5:00 PM       0            0                        3                   9                12         0                             2        0           0          2       11               0                12           0       23
          5:15 PM       0            0                        1                   1                 2         0                             1        0           0          1          2             0                10           0       12
          5:30 PM       0            0                        2                   1                 3         0                             0        0           1          1          6             0                14           0       20
          5:45 PM       0            1                        2                   3                 6         0                             0        0           0          0          3             0                13           0       16
        Count Total     0            2                        30                  41               73         0                             9        6           5          20      48               0            102              0      150
          Peak Hr       0            1                        8                   14               23         0                             3        0           1          4       22               0                49           0       71




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                                     deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

       Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                                      0                         Maple St                       El Camino Real                   El Camino Real
          Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
            Start                Eastbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Southbound               Total   One Hour
                        UT       LT        TH    RT     UT      LT        TH    RT     UT        LT        TH    RT     UT        LT        TH    RT
          4:00 PM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        6        0   0          0        8        0     14        0
          4:15 PM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        4        0   0          0        9        0     13        0
          4:30 PM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        5        0   1          0        7        0     13        0
          4:45 PM        0        0        0        0   0        1        0        0   0          0        6        1   0          0        2        0     10        50
          5:00 PM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        3        0   0          0        9        0     12        48
          5:15 PM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        1        0   0          0        1        0     2         37
          5:30 PM        0        0        0        0   0        0        0        0   0          0        2        0   0          0        1        0     3         27
          5:45 PM        0        0        0        0   0        1        0        0   0          0        1        1   0          1        2        0     6         23
        Count Total      0        0        0        0   0        2        0        0   0          0        28       2   1          1        39       0     73        0
         Peak Hour       0        0        0        0   0        1        0        0   0          0        7        1   0          1        13       0     23        0


       Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                                      0                         Maple St                       El Camino Real                   El Camino Real
          Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
            Start                Eastbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                       Southbound               Total   One Hour
                          LT          TH        RT       LT          TH        RT       LT            TH        RT       LT            TH        RT
          4:00 PM            0        0         0           1        0         0           0          1         1           0          0         0         3         0
          4:15 PM            0        0         0           2        0         0           0          2         0           0          0         0         4         0
          4:30 PM            0        0         0           2        0         1           0          2         0           0          3         0         8         0
          4:45 PM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          0         0           0          1         0         1         16
          5:00 PM            0        0         0           2        0         0           0          0         0           0          0         0         2         15
          5:15 PM            0        0         0           1        0         0           0          0         0           0          0         0         1         12
          5:30 PM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          0         0           0          1         0         1         5
          5:45 PM            0        0         0           0        0         0           0          0         0           0          0         0         0         4
        Count Total          0        0         0           8        0         1           0          5         1           0          5         0         20        0
         Peak Hour           0        0         0           3        0         0           0          0         0           0          1         0         4         0
       Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                         deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
COMPARE                                                                   Mon Dec 12 14:06:29 2016                                                              Page 3-1
                                                                El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA



                                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                              2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                               Existing (AM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:     0              1419***             61
                                Lanes:      0        0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                          Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                          Vol Cnt Date:     11/9/2016   Rights=Include       Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                         Cycle Time (sec):       135
    0          0                                                                                                 1         49
                                                         Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                                 0
    0          0                                              Critical V/C:    0.442                             0          0

               0                                  Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):        9.2                             0


    0          0                                    Avg Delay (sec/veh):        11.7                             1        69***

                                                                     LOS:        B




                                Lanes:       0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0***               1232              77
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:           El Camino Real                    Maple Street
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound      East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:     0   18      0     0   18     0    0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0     4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0  4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 9 Nov 2016 << 7:30 - 8:30 AM
Base Vol:       0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0     49
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0     49
Added Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
ATI:            0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:    0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0     49
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:     0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0     49
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0    49
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0    49
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:     0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0    0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.32 0.04 0.03 0.37 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 0.03
Crit Moves: ****                    ****                        ****
Green Time:   0.0 90.3 90.3     9.7 100    0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 26.0 0.0 26.0
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.48 0.07 0.48 0.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.20 0.00 0.15
Delay/Veh:    0.0 11.1    7.8 63.2 7.4     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 46.1 0.0 45.5
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:   0.0 11.1    7.8 63.2 7.4     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 46.1 0.0 45.5
LOS by Move:    A    B      A     E    A     A    A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:     0   22      2     6   22     0    0    0     0     5    0      4
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                                 Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
COMPARE                                                                   Mon Dec 12 14:06:29 2016                                                              Page 3-2


                                                                El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA


                                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                              2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                           Existing+Project (AM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:     0              1437***             68
                                Lanes:      0        0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                          Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                          Vol Cnt Date:     11/9/2016   Rights=Include       Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                         Cycle Time (sec):       135
    0          0                                                                                                 1         50
                                                         Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                                 0
    0          0                                              Critical V/C:    0.461                             0          0

               0                                  Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):        9.8                             0


    0          0                                    Avg Delay (sec/veh):        12.3                             1        91***

                                                                     LOS:        B




                                Lanes:       0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0***               1234              79
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:           El Camino Real                    Maple Street
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound      East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:     0   18      0     0   18     0    0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0     4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0  4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 9 Nov 2016 << 7:30 - 8:30 AM
Base Vol:       0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0     49
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    0 1232     77    61 1419     0    0    0     0    69    0     49
Added Vol:      0    2      2     7   18     0    0    0     0    22    0      1
ATI:            0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:    0 1234     79    68 1437     0    0    0     0    91    0     50
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:     0 1234     79    68 1437     0    0    0     0    91    0     50
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    0 1234     79    68 1437     0    0    0     0    91    0    50
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    0 1234     79    68 1437     0    0    0     0    91    0    50
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:     0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0    0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.32 0.05 0.04 0.38 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.00 0.03
Crit Moves: ****                    ****                        ****
Green Time:   0.0 89.3 89.3 10.7 100       0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 26.0 0.0 26.0
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.49 0.07 0.49 0.51 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.27 0.00 0.15
Delay/Veh:    0.0 11.6    8.1 62.3 7.5     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 46.9 0.0 45.5
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:   0.0 11.6    8.1 62.3 7.5     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 46.9 0.0 45.5
LOS by Move:    A    B      A     E    A     A    A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:     0   23      3     7   22     0    0    0     0     7    0      4
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                                 Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
COMPARE                                                                   Mon Dec 12 14:06:29 2016                                                              Page 3-3


                                                                El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA


                                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                              2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                              Background (AM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:     0              1487***             62
                                Lanes:      0        0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                         Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                          Vol Cnt Date:      n/a       Rights=Include        Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                         Cycle Time (sec):     135
    0          0                                                                                                 1         48
                                                         Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                                 0
    0          0                                              Critical V/C:    0.492                             0          0

               0                                  Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):      10.6                              0


    0          0                                    Avg Delay (sec/veh):       12.4                              1       118***

                                                                     LOS:       B




                                Lanes:       0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0***               1283              100
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:            El Camino Real                   Maple Street
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound     East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R      L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:      0   18      0     0   18     0   0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0      4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0 4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
ATI:             0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:     0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:     0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:      0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0   0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.34 0.06 0.04 0.39 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.00 0.03
Crit Moves: ****                     ****                       ****
Green Time:    0.0 90.5 90.5     9.5 100    0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 26.0 0.0 26.0
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.50 0.09 0.50 0.53 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.35 0.00 0.14
Delay/Veh:     0.0 11.2    7.8 63.8 7.6     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 47.8 0.0 45.4
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    0.0 11.2    7.8 63.8 7.6     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 47.8 0.0 45.4
LOS by Move:     A    B      A     E    A     A   A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:      0   23      3     7   23     0   0    0     0     9    0      3
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                                 Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
COMPARE                                                                   Mon Dec 12 14:06:29 2016                                                              Page 3-4


                                                                El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA


                                                                    Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                              2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                          Background+Project (AM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:     0              1505***             69
                                Lanes:      0        0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                         Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                          Vol Cnt Date:      n/a       Rights=Include        Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                         Cycle Time (sec):     135
    0          0                                                                                                 1         49
                                                         Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                                 0
    0          0                                              Critical V/C:    0.510                             0          0

               0                                  Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):      11.2                              0


    0          0                                    Avg Delay (sec/veh):       13.0                              1       140***

                                                                     LOS:       B




                                Lanes:       0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0***               1285              102
                                                 Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:            El Camino Real                   Maple Street
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound     East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R      L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:      0   18      0     0   18     0   0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0      4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0 4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 1283    100    62 1487     0   0    0     0   118    0     48
Added Vol:       0    2      2     7   18     0   0    0     0    22    0      1
ATI:             0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:     0 1285    102    69 1505     0   0    0     0   140    0     49
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 1285    102    69 1505     0   0    0     0   140    0     49
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:     0 1285    102    69 1505     0   0    0     0   140    0     49
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0 1285    102    69 1505     0   0    0     0   140    0     49
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:      0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0   0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.34 0.06 0.04 0.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.00 0.03
Crit Moves: ****                     ****                       ****
Green Time:    0.0 89.6 89.6 10.4 100       0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 26.0 0.0 26.0
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.51 0.09 0.51 0.53 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.42 0.00 0.15
Delay/Veh:     0.0 11.7    8.2 63.0 7.7     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 48.7 0.0 45.5
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    0.0 11.7    8.2 63.0 7.7     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 48.7 0.0 45.5
LOS by Move:     A    B      A     E    A     A   A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:      0   24      3     7   24     0   0    0     0    10    0      4
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                                 Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
COMPARE                                                                Mon Dec 12 14:10:19 2016                                                              Page 3-1
                                                             El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA



                                                                 Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                           2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                            Existing (PM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:   0               1289              67***
                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                       Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                       Vol Cnt Date:     11/9/2016   Rights=Include       Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                      Cycle Time (sec):       135
    0          0                                                                                              1         58
                                                      Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                              0
    0          0                                           Critical V/C:    0.534                             0          0

               0                               Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):       18.5                             0


    0          0                                 Avg Delay (sec/veh):        13.9                             1       183***

                                                                  LOS:        B




                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0             1351***             80
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:           El Camino Real                    Maple Street
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound      East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:     0   18      0     0   18     0    0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0     4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0  4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 9 Nov 2016 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0     58
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0     58
Added Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
ATI:            0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:    0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0     58
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:     0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0     58
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0    58
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0    58
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:     0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0    0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.36 0.05 0.04 0.34 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.00 0.03
Crit Moves:       ****         ****                             ****
Green Time:   0.0 89.9 89.9     9.7 99.6   0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 26.4 0.0 26.4
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.53 0.07 0.53 0.46 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.53 0.00 0.17
Delay/Veh:    0.0 11.9    7.9 64.9 7.2     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 50.4 0.0 45.4
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:   0.0 11.9    7.9 64.9 7.2     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 50.4 0.0 45.4
LOS by Move:    A    B      A     E    A     A    A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:     0   25      3     7   19     0    0    0     0    14    0      4
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                              Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
COMPARE                                                                Mon Dec 12 14:10:19 2016                                                              Page 3-2


                                                             El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA


                                                                 Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                           2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                        Existing+Project (PM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:   0               1295              76***
                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                       Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                       Vol Cnt Date:     11/9/2016   Rights=Include       Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                      Cycle Time (sec):       135
    0          0                                                                                              1         66
                                                      Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                              0
    0          0                                           Critical V/C:    0.549                             0          0

               0                               Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):       19.6                             0


    0          0                                 Avg Delay (sec/veh):        14.7                             1       191***

                                                                  LOS:        B




                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0             1368***             97
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:           El Camino Real                    Maple Street
Approach:      North Bound       South Bound      East Bound       West Bound
Movement:     L - T - R         L - T - R       L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:     0   18      0     0   18     0    0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0     4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0  4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module: >> Count Date: 9 Nov 2016 << 5:00 - 6:00 PM
Base Vol:       0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0     58
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:    0 1351     80    67 1289     0    0    0     0   183    0     58
Added Vol:      0   17     17     9    6     0    0    0     0     8    0      8
ATI:            0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:    0 1368     97    76 1295     0    0    0     0   191    0     66
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:     0 1368     97    76 1295     0    0    0     0   191    0     66
Reduct Vol:     0    0      0     0    0     0    0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:    0 1368     97    76 1295     0    0    0     0   191    0    66
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:    0 1368     97    76 1295     0    0    0     0   191    0    66
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:     0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0    0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.36 0.06 0.04 0.34 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.11 0.00 0.04
Crit Moves:       ****         ****                             ****
Green Time:   0.0 88.5 88.5 10.7 99.2      0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 26.8 0.0 26.8
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.55 0.08 0.55 0.46 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.55 0.00 0.19
Delay/Veh:    0.0 12.8    8.5 64.5 7.3     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 50.5 0.0 45.3
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:   0.0 12.8    8.5 64.5 7.3     0.0  0.0 0.0    0.0 50.5 0.0 45.3
LOS by Move:    A    B      A     E    A     A    A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:     0   26      3     8   19     0    0    0     0    14    0      5
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                              Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
COMPARE                                                                Mon Dec 12 14:10:19 2016                                                              Page 3-3


                                                             El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA


                                                                 Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                           2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                           Background (PM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:   0               1326              70***
                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                      Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                       Vol Cnt Date:      n/a       Rights=Include        Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                      Cycle Time (sec):     135
    0          0                                                                                              1         59
                                                      Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                              0
    0          0                                           Critical V/C:    0.564                             0          0

               0                               Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):      20.2                              0


    0          0                                 Avg Delay (sec/veh):       15.2                              1       211***

                                                                  LOS:       B




                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0             1391***             125
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:            El Camino Real                   Maple Street
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound     East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R      L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:      0   18      0     0   18     0   0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0      4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0 4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
Added Vol:       0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
ATI:             0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:     0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:     0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:      0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0   0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.37 0.07 0.04 0.35 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.12 0.00 0.03
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                            ****
Green Time:    0.0 87.6 87.6     9.6 97.2   0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 28.8 0.0 28.8
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.56 0.11 0.56 0.48 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.56 0.00 0.16
Delay/Veh:     0.0 13.4    9.0 66.6 8.3     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 49.4 0.0 43.4
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    0.0 13.4    9.0 66.6 8.3     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 49.4 0.0 43.4
LOS by Move:     A    B      A     E    A     A   A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:      0   28      4     8   21     0   0    0     0    15    0      4
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                              Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
COMPARE                                                                Mon Dec 12 14:10:19 2016                                                              Page 3-4


                                                             El Camino Real and Diller, Redwood City, CA


                                                                 Level Of Service Computation Report
                                                           2000 HCM Operations (Future Volume Alternative)
                                                                       Background+Project (PM)
Intersection #9: El Camino Real & Maple Street
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include
                             Final Vol:   0               1332              79***
                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1



                    Signal=Split                                                      Signal=Split
Final Vol:   Lanes: Rights=Include                       Vol Cnt Date:      n/a       Rights=Include        Lanes:   Final Vol:
                                                      Cycle Time (sec):     135
    0          0                                                                                              1         67
                                                      Loss Time (sec):        9
               0                                                                                              0
    0          0                                           Critical V/C:    0.579                             0          0

               0                               Avg Crit Del (sec/veh):      21.2                              0


    0          0                                 Avg Delay (sec/veh):       15.9                              1       219***

                                                                  LOS:       B




                                Lanes:    0       0         2         0     1
                             Final Vol:   0             1408***             142
                                              Signal=Protect/Rights=Include

Street Name:            El Camino Real                   Maple Street
Approach:       North Bound       South Bound     East Bound       West Bound
Movement:      L - T - R         L - T - R      L - T - R        L - T - R
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Min. Green:      0   18      0     0   18     0   0    0     0    26    0     26
Y+R:          4.0 4.0      4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0 4.0 4.0    4.0   4.0 4.0    4.0
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Volume Module:
Base Vol:        0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
Growth Adj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
Initial Bse:     0 1391    125    70 1326     0   0    0     0   211    0     59
Added Vol:       0   17     17     9    6     0   0    0     0     8    0      8
ATI:             0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Initial Fut:     0 1408    142    79 1332     0   0    0     0   219    0     67
User Adj:    1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
PHF Volume:      0 1408    142    79 1332     0   0    0     0   219    0     67
Reduct Vol:      0    0      0     0    0     0   0    0     0     0    0      0
Reduced Vol:     0 1408    142    79 1332     0   0    0     0   219    0     67
PCE Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
MLF Adj:     1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
FinalVolume:     0 1408    142    79 1332     0   0    0     0   219    0     67
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Saturation Flow Module:
Sat/Lane:    1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900 1900
Adjustment: 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92 0.92 1.00 0.92
Lanes:       0.00 2.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00
Final Sat.:      0 3800 1750 1750 3800        0   0    0     0 1750     0 1750
------------|---------------||---------------||---------------||---------------|
Capacity Analysis Module:
Vol/Sat:     0.00 0.37 0.08 0.05 0.35 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.13 0.00 0.04
Crit Moves:        ****         ****                            ****
Green Time:    0.0 86.3 86.3 10.5 96.8      0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 29.2 0.0 29.2
Volume/Cap: 0.00 0.58 0.13 0.58 0.49 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.58 0.00 0.18
Delay/Veh:     0.0 14.3    9.6 66.2 8.4     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 49.7 0.0 43.4
User DelAdj: 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
AdjDel/Veh:    0.0 14.3    9.6 66.2 8.4     0.0 0.0 0.0    0.0 49.7 0.0 43.4
LOS by Move:     A    B      A     E    A     A   A    A     A     D    A      D
HCM2k95thQ:      0   29      5     8   21     0   0    0     0    16    0      5
Note: Queue reported is the number of cars per lane.




Traffix 8.0.0715                                              Copyright (c) 2008 Dowling Associates, Inc.                         Licensed to Hexagon Trans., San Jose
Cañada Public Information Office, AthleticsAllGames, cancareercenter@gmail.com,                                                      Mar 2016 (Pacific Time)
c a n e s l d e p a r t m e n t @ g m a i l . c o m, TRIO Student Support Services, CIETL at Canada College, E v e n t s, Financial Literacy Lab,
Holidays in United States
         Sun                    Mon                              Tue                                Wed                                Thu                    Fri                 Sat
                  20                        21                                     22                             23                                     24         25                      26

                       1 p m - Classified        Women's Tennis                          9 : 3 0 a m - CCLC at          9 a m - Heritage of                              1 p m - Baseball
                       Senate                    Game @ Cañada                           Stanford @                     Asian Pacific                                    Game @
                       Meetings                  C0o:l 3
                                                 1       l e0gaem            0 0 FTask
                                                                     , 4- 2CoP    arm    C:a3ñ0aadm
                                                                                         9            a - Trader Joes   1  0 a m - COLTS
                                                                                                                        Islanders                                        Cañada
                                                 Force
                                                 Hill      Blvd,          Redwood        @     Cañada
                                                                                         College,                       A
                                                                                                                        ( h2cA:a3Pd0Ie)pmFmye s1
                                                 1
                                                 M   p  m      -   Counseling
                                                     t g . -CA 94061,                    9  : 3 0 a m - Wu Yee @
                                                                                         College,                       1
                                                                                                                        and 2                 - tHoli Fest               College, Farm
                                                 City,
                                                 D   ep    a r ti m                      T ha eñ aGdrao v e                                                              Hill
                                                 A
                                                 2
                                                 U   d
                                                     p
                                                     n m
                                                       im           sStterantte s
                                                         t teii-ndnFAFSA
                                                                                         C
                                                                                         T
                                                                                         1  1 ea m
                                                                                            h     G r-oDvree a m        @ Upper
                                                                                                                        1  pw  mn- Psychology                            Boulevard,
                                                 M
                                                 T
                                                     e  e
                                                 a tuievsed a ys    g                    College,
                                                                                         Application
                                                                                                                        La
                                                                                                                        Club Meeting                                     Redwood City,
                                                 2  :u3p0ppom      r t - Baseball        T
                                                                                         1  h :e3G
                                                                                            1      0ar omv e- COP
                                                 S
                                                 Workshop                   @            Workshop             @         @: 3Social
                                                                                                                        2       0 p m - Baseball
                                                                                                                                                                         CA, United
                                                 G
                                                 9 -a1m 2 3e C     @a ñ a d a            Advisory
                                                                                         9 -21: 2                       G   a m e @ Hub
                                                 G   a v  i  l  a  n                     1
                                                                                         G   r o3u30pp m - EOPS         Sciences
                                                                                                                        H a r t n- eSl lt u d e n t L i f e
                                                                                                                        3  p   m                                         States
                                                 Financial                               C  añada
                                                                                         Group                          ASCC Hugo
                                                 Literacy Lab                            2  p m - Student
                                                                                         Financial
                                                                                         Counselin                      3  :30pm - Student
                                                                                                                        Encisco
                                                                                         Services
                                                                                         Literacy
                                                                                         g                 Lab          Senate
                                                                                         4  pSession
                                                                                               m - Loan
                                                                                         Planning                       M:e3e0tpi nmg -@
                                                                                                                        6                     CWA
                                                                                         W   o
                                                                                         Councilr k s h  o p            Brown
                                                                                                                        CIETL Bag
                                                                                         5 p m - Financial Aid          D   inner 9
                                                                                         SAP                            Building
                                                                                         Workshop @                     R o o m 1@5 4
                                                                                                                        Series
                                                                                                                        CIETL (9-
                                                                                         Cañada                         154)
                                                                                         College, 4200
                                                                                         Farm Hill
                                                                                         Blvd, Redwood
                                                                                         City, CA
                                                                                         94061, United
                                                                                         States




                  27                        28                                     29                             30                                     31         1                       2

 Spring Recess
 Easter Sunday         SPRING BREAK                                                                                                                                      1 p m - Baseball
                                                                                                                                                                         Game @
                                                 2 p m - FAFSA                           1 1 a m - Dream                Deadline for                                     Cañada
                                                 Tuesday                                 Application                    Petitions for                                    College, Farm
                                                 2 : 3 0 p m - Baseball
                                                 Workshop       @                        Workshop @                               e s aton dfile
                                                                                                                        D e g r eday
                                                                                                                        Last
                                                                                                                                                                         Hill
                                                 G    2 3e C
                                                 9 -a1m    @a ñ a d a                    9-123                          petitions
                                                                                                                        Certificates
                                                                                                                        Women's
                                                                                                                                        in
                                                                                                                                        Tennis                           Boulevard,
                                                 Cabrillo
                                                 Financial                               Cañada                         Admissions          &
                                                                                                                        Game
                                                                                                                        Records    @  Mission                            Redwood City,
                                                 Literacy Lab                            Financial                      2 : 3 0 p m - for    degrees
                                                                                                                                       Baseball
                                                                                                                        and                                              CA, United
                                                                                         Literacy Lab                   G  a mcertificates
                                                                                                                                e @
                                                                                                                                                                         States
                                                                                                                        Cp
                                                                                                                        3 añ ma -d S
                                                                                                                                   a tudent Life
                                                                                                                        ASCC
                                                                                                                        College,   Hugo
                                                                                                                        6 : 3 0 p m - CWA
                                                                                                                        Encisco
                                                                                                                        Farm
                                                                                                                        BrownHill   Bag
                                                                                                                        Boulevard,
                                                                                                                        D inner
                                                                                                                        R edwoo
                                                                                                                        Series      @d
                                                                                                                        CIETLCA,
                                                                                                                        City,      (9-
                                                                                                                        U5n4i t)e d
                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        States
Cañada Public Information Office, AthleticsAllGames, cancareercenter@gmail.com,                                                      Apr 2016 (Pacific Time)
c a n e s l d e p a r t m e n t @ g m a i l . c o m, TRIO Student Support Services, CIETL at Canada College, E v e n t s, Financial Literacy Lab,
Holidays in United States
         Sun                           Mon                                       Tue                                   Wed                                    Thu                             Fri                             Sat
                  27                                        28                                    29                                      30                                 31                           1                                 2

 Spring Recess
 Easter Sunday         SPRING BREAK                                                                                                                                                                            1 p m - Baseball
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Game @
                                                                    2 p m - FAFSA                        1 1 a m - Dream                          Deadline for                                                 Cañada
                                                                    Tuesday                              Application                              Petitions for                                                College, Farm
                                                                    2 : 3 0 p m - Baseball
                                                                    Workshop       @                     Workshop @                               D e g r eday
                                                                                                                                                  Last        e s aton dfile
                                                                    G                                                                                                                                          Hill
                   3                                         4      9 -a1m
                                                                         2 3e C
                                                                              @a ñ a d a
                                                                                           5             9-123                     6
                                                                                                                                                  petitions
                                                                                                                                                  Certificates       in
                                                                                                                                                                               7                          8    Boulevard,                   9
                                                                    Cabrillo
                                                                    Financial                            Cañada                                   Admissions &
                                                                                                                                                  Records for degrees                                          Redwood City,
                                                                    Women's
                                                                    Literacy Lab  Tennis Game            @    TBA
                                                                                                         Financial
                                                                                                                                                  and certificates                                             CA, United
                                                                                                         Literacy Lab                                                                                          Sat amt e-sT r a n s f e r
                                                                    1 0 : 3 0 a m - Financial            9 : 3 0 a m - Child Care                 1 0 a m - COLTS                   9 : 3 0 a m - Curriculum   8
                                                                    Aid SAP                              Careers @                                Academy 1                         Committee                  Success Tour:
                                                                    Wpom
                                                                    2      r k-s FAFSA
                                                                                    hop                  9
                                                                                                         C:a3ñ0aadm   a - Nordstrom               1
                                                                                                                                                  an2 :d3 0 2 p m - Career          @0 Building
                                                                                                                                                                                    1    a m - ESL             1         - Baseball
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 p mFrancisco
                                                                                                                                                                                                               San
                                                                    T
                                                                    @  ue    sday
                                                                          Cañada                         S   tanford
                                                                                                         College,                                 Center:                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                    2 eRpoaorm  t m1e0n t      G
                                                                                                                                                                                                               S taamt ee @
                                                                    2  : 3
                                                                    Workshop0  p   m    - Baseball
                                                                                            @            9  : 3 0 a m - Wizbots @
                                                                                                         Shopping                                 Rp
                                                                                                                                                  1  e smu -mPsychology
                                                                                                                                                                 e &                1
                                                                                                                                                                                    M2epe mt i n-gS@tudent     C añada
                                                                    College,
                                                                    G   a1m    e C  @a ñ a d a           T
                                                                                                         C  ha eñ aGdrao v e                      C  lub Meeting                    Services                   University         @
                                                                    9
                                                                    3 -:
                                                                    4200 3 20  3
                                                                               p   m    - Inter-Club     Center
                                                                                                         1  1am - @     Dream                     Cover
                                                                                                                                                  2 :  3Social
                                                                                                                                                         0 p m - Baseball           13-11                      College,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               San Francisco,  Farm
                                                                    Skyline
                                                                    Financial                            College,
                                                                                                         C   añada                                @
                                                                                                                                                  L eatm t eer @                    Division                   Hill
                                                                    Council
                                                                    Farm
                                                                    College,       Hill                  Application
                                                                                                         T2 h :e3G   r omv e- EOPS                G
                                                                                                                                                  Sciences                                                     CA, USA
                                                                    Literacy             Lab             1
                                                                                                         College,  0p                             3
                                                                                                                                                  Op
                                                                                                                                                  C  rhem      oSnt uHub
                                                                                                                                                         otn-i e
                                                                                                                                                        la           dent Life      Meeting                    Boulevard,
                                                                    3300 @
                                                                    (ICC)
                                                                    Blvd,                                Workshop
                                                                                                         Group
                                                                                                         T -h1e2 G
                                                                                                                              @
                                                                                                                                                  ASCC         Hugo
                  10                                        11      Building
                                                                    Redwood
                                                                    College               5,
                                                                                        Dr,         12   9         3 rove          13             @                            14                        15    Redwood City,                16
                                                                    R  o  o   m     3  5  0              Counselin
                                                                                                         Cañada                                   Encisco
                                                                                                                                                  Building                                                     CA, United
                                                                    City,
                                                                    San Bruno,    CA
 Women's Tennis Game @ TBA                                                                               g    Session
                                                                                                         Financial                                13, room                                                     States
                                                                    C4A0 96 410, 6 6 ,
                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                  115
                                                                    Un
                                                                    U  n ii tt e
                                                                               ed d                      Literacy Lab
                       Awareness Week                                                                                                                                               TRIO Points Due @          8 a m - Transfer
                                                                    S tt a
                                                                    S    a tt ees s                                                                                                 TRIO Office                Success Tour:
                       Student Senate                               1 1 a m - Alcohol                    Thomas Jefferson's                       9 a m - Awareness                                            UC Berkeley -
                       Campaigning Begins                           Awareness                            Birthday                                 Week                                                         Cal Day @
                       9 a m - Off-Campus                           1
                                                                    Sp p ema k   - eCounseling
                                                                                      r @ 6-             1 1 a m - Dream                          1 0 a m - COLTS
                                                                                                                                                  Activities       @
                       Registration                                 D  e1p/a1r0t m                                                                                                                             Berkeley, CA,
                       1 2 : 3 0 p m - One                          1  0              2 ent              Application                              A
                                                                                                                                                  T h          v e-1EOPS
                                                                                                                                                             omy
                                                                                                                                                    c ea dGerm
                       Workshop                 for Love            2  p  m
                                                                    Meetings     -  FAFSA                1 1 a m - Spring
                                                                                                         Workshop            @ Job                1 2 :
                                                                                                                                                  and 2 3 0 p                                                  USA
                       Training:
                       ESL 921 at                                   Tuesday                              Fair
                                                                                                         9 - 1  2 @
                                                                                                                  3    The                        Group
                       O   p e n t o Adult                          2  : 3 0 p m - Baseball
                                                                    Workshop                @            Gp
                                                                                                         2     mv e- ,S t u d e n t
                                                                                                            r oñ                                  1 2:30pm - Meet the
                                                                                                                                                  Counselin
                       Sequoia                                                                           C a     ada
                  17   All
                       School  @ @                             18   9 -a1m
                                                                    G      2 3e C   @a ñ a d a
                                                                                                    19
                                                                                                         Services
                                                                                                           Cafeteria),
                                                                                                         (Financial                 20            g aSession
                                                                                                                                                       ndidat
                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                         21                              22                                 23
                       Building                                     M   o  n   t  e r e y                 Planning                                es @ The
                       Sequoia 6                                    Financial
                                                                    Peninsula
                                                                                                          Building
                                                                                                          Literacy
                                                                                                          Council
                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                          Lab                     Grove
                       9
                       1 0a 1m/ 1- 0College
                                         2 Adult                    1  p m - F r eLab
                                                                    Literacy               edom of        Women's Tennis Game
                       District
                       Information                                  Expression
                       S 2c :h3o0opl ,m3 -2 4
                       1                           7
                       a n d I D E v eS          n tt u d e n t     Ap
                                                                    2  r tmW-oFAFSA  rkshop              8:30am - Parent                          8 : 3 0 a m - SparkPoint          TRIO Grant Aid             1 p m - Baseball
                       Mei dndalteef i e l d
                       S                                            T  ue             y
                                                                             s d aGrove                  Meeting                                  Team                              Application Due            Game @
                       for
                       1  p    ESL          921,                    @     The
                       R   d ,mM- eClassified
                       Elections         nlo                        2  p  m
                                                                    Workshop     -  TRIO      Tea Time   9
                                                                                                         P :r3e 0s a      mt a- tMi enlo          M0e:e3t0i na g
                                                                                                                                                  1               ms - COTLS
                       S
                       S  teundaet n  e ts from                     a
                                                                    w/t   CPata   ñ a@ada @              Children's
                                                                                                                      en
                                                                                                                                                  Academy
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cabrillo
                       Park,
                       @     The     CA                             9
                                                                    2 -: 1
                                                                         3 20  3
                                                                               p   mC   - ñ a d a
                                                                                           Baseball      on,
                                                                                                         9   :  3  0ESL
                                                                                                                      a   m
                       Sequoia
                       M
                       9 4re0
                       G           i n, agUtAdult
                             oe2vt 5
                                   e        sn i t e d              L  e a r n i n gThe
                                                                    College,
                                                                    Financial                            Center
                                                                                                         D     e p@ artm     @e nm e l a g a h
                                                                                                                               -  O                  1
                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                  1 & 2 Loan
                                                                                                                                                          m
                                                                                                                                                       a        -
                       School             @                         G
                                                                    Loopa m
                                                                    C:e3n0t p  e    @
                                                                                  Rd,
                                                                                e rm -Lab                Inc                                      Workshop
                       S taañtaedsa
                       C                                            3
                                                                    Literacy
                                                                    G                      Inter-Club    tC
                                                                                                         9   :@a3ñ0aTadam  a
                                                                                                                           f t - President's      1 2 : 3 0 p m - Career
                       building 9
                       College,                                     K iatvcihl ae n
                                                                    Woodside,
                                                                    Council         n        CA           C    añada
                                                                                                          College,
                                                                                                          Council
                                                                                                          Community                               Center:
                                                                    94061, United                         College,
                                                                                                          9  :h3ee0tG ai nm    - eTrader Joes
                       The Loop                                     (ICC) @                               T
                                                                                                          T hee
                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                          School,    G
                                                                                                                          rgov
                                                                                                                               v@
                                                                                                                          r o903 e
                                                                                                                                                  1     e r v- iPsychology
                                                                                                                                                  I npt m        ewi
                                                                    States                                @       Cañada                          C  lub Meeting
                  24   Rd,                                     25   Building 5,                     26    CIETL
                                                                                                          Tenth A          (9-ve,            27   ng                         28                          29                                 30
                                                                    Room 350                              College,
                                                                                                          1   5   4 )                             @    Social
                                                                                                                                                  Essentials
                       Woodside                                                                           Redwood
 Women's Tennis                                                     Campus Voting @                       T h e G r o vVoting
                                                                                                          Campus                 e       @        Sciences
                                                                                                                                                  @                  Hub
                       , CA                                                                               City, CA
 Game                  94061,                                       Upper Lawn                            U4p0p6e3r , L a w n
                                                                                                          9                                       Building
                                                                    9 a m - STUDENT                       9 a m - STUDENT
                       United                                                                             United                                  13, room
                                                                    SENATE                                SENATE
                       States                                       1  0 : 3 0 a m - CoP Task             9
                                                                                                          S  :t 3a 0
                                                                                                                   t easm - CCLC at               115
                                                                    CAMPUS                                CAMPUS
                                                                    Force
                                                                    VOTING                                Stanford                @
                                                                    M0pt g
                                                                    1     : 3. 0-a m@- Financial          VOTING
                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                          C:a   3ñ0aadm    aL a-@Office
                                                                    U
                                                                    Aid   pSAPer Lawn                     U
                                                                                                          D    p  p e
                                                                                                               epot @ n r        w
                                                                    Ap
                                                                    2  dm m    i -n FAFSA
                                                                                    istr                  College,
                                                                                                          9  :a3ñ0aadm         - UrbanSitte
                                                                    W
                                                                    a tuievsedsahyo p
                                                                         o r  k                           C
                                                                                                          T          G rao v e
                                                                                                              h@e Cañada
                                                                    T
                                                                    @:u3Cañada                            rCollege,
                                                                    2
                                                                    S     p0ppom
                                                                    Workshop        r t - Baseball
                                                                                            @              1  1 a m - Dream
                                                                                                           College,
                                                                    College,
                                                                    G   a1m    e C  @a ñ a d a             The Grove
                                                                                                           Application
                                                                    9
                                                                    3
                                                                    4 -:
                                                                       2 3020 03
                                                                               p   m    -  STUDENT         T
                                                                                                           1 1 :e3G
                                                                                                              h       0a  r omv e- COP
                                                                    C  añada
                                                                    Financial                              Workshop                @
                                                                    SENATE
                                                                    Farm Hill
                                                                    College,                               Advisory
                                                                                                           9-123
                                                                    Literacy
                                                                    Blvd, HillLab
                                                                    CAMPUS
                                                                    Farm                                   G
                                                                                                           Ca  r oñua p da
                                                                    R e d w o o d@
                                                                    VOTING
