                                Air Quality Conformity Task Force
                                       Metropolitan Transportation Commission
                                             Joseph P. Bort MetroCenter
                                       Claremont Conference Room – 2nd Floor
                                             101 Eighth Street, Oakland
                           Conference Call Number: 888-273-3658 (Access Code: 9427202)
                                               Thursday, April 28, 2016
                                                9:30 a.m. –11:00 a.m.

                                                     AGENDA
1. Welcome and Introductions

2. PM2.5 Project Conformity Interagency Consultations

    a. Consultation to Determine Project of Air Quality Concern Status
       i.     Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park and Seminary Project
       ii.    US 101 University Ave Interchange Improvements Project
       iii.   Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvement Project

    b. Confirm Projects Are Exempt from PM2.5 Conformity
       i.     Projects Exempt Under 40 CFR 93.126 – Not of Air Quality Concern

3. Projects with Regional Air Quality Conformity Concerns

    a. Review of the Regional Conformity Status for New and Revised Projects us
          3a_Regional_AQ_Conformity_Review.pdf
          3a_Attachment-A_List_of_Proposed_New_Projects_4-28-16.pdf

4. Approach to Conformity Analysis for the 2017 Transportation Improvement Program and Plan Bay Area

5. Consent Calendar

    a. March 24, 2016 Air Quality Conformity Task Force Meeting Summary

6. Other Items

    Next Meeting: May 26, 2016


                                                    MTC Staff Liaison:         Harold Brazil   hbrazil@mtc.ca.gov

J:\SECTION\PLANNING\AIRQUAL\TSKFORCE\2016\4-28-16\Draft\1_Agenda_042816.docx
 TO: Air Quality Conformity Task Force                                                 DATE: April 15, 2016

 FR: Harold Brazil                                                                        W. I.

 RE: PM2.5 Project Conformity Interagency Consultation

Project sponsors representing three projects, seek interagency consultation from the Air
Quality Conformity Task Force (AQCTF) at today’s meeting and the projects are as follows:

  No.                      Project Sponsor                                              Project Title
 1         City of Oakland                                        Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park and Seminary
                                                                  Project
 2         City of East Palo Alto                                 US 101 University Ave Interchange Improvements
                                                                  Project
 3         Bay Area Toll Authority (BATA)                         Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvements
                                                                  Project

2ai_Laurel_Access_to_Mills_Maxwell_Pk_and_Seminary_Project_Assessment_
Form.pdf (for the Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park and Seminary project)

2aii_US101_University_Ave_Interchange_Improvements_Project_Assessment_
Form.pdf
And -
2aii_US101_University_Ave_Interchange_Improvements_Project_Assessment_
Form_Appendix.pdf (for the US 101 University Ave Interchange Improvements project)

2aiii_ Richmond-San Rafael_Bridge_Access_Improvements_Project_Assessment_
Form.pdf (for the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvements project
– Please note: HNTB staff prepared a summary of the February 25, 2016 Task Force
meeting and this summary is included at the end of the assessment form)

MTC also requests the review and concurrence from the Task Force on projects that project
sponsors have identified as exempt and likely not to be a POAQC. 2b_Exempt List
041516.pdf lists exempt projects under 40 CFR 93.126




J:\SECTION\PLANNING\AIRQUAL\TSKFORCE\2016\4-28-16\Draft\2a_ PM2.5 Interagency Consultation.docx
                     Application of Criteria for a Project of Air Quality Concern
Project Title: Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park and Seminary (LAMMPS) Streetscape Project
Project Summary for Air Quality Conformity Task Force Meeting: April 28th 2016


Description
  −   Project will reconfigure the existing traffic lanes along MacArthur Boulevard to add bicycle lanes
      and multi-use pathway/sidewalks to improve safety, appearance, and access for pedestrians,
      bicycles and vehicular traffic.
  −   There are minimal changes to the number of lanes; elimination only and with new traffic signals
      and signal timing optimization, the project will reduce vehicle delay compared to the no-build
      condition with the corridor operating better (less delay and same or better LOS) as the no build
      conditions

Background
  −   NEPA process for Categorical Exemption is almost complete
  −   No comments received on air quality thus far
  −   Seeking air quality conformity determination by April 30, 2016.
  −   Schedule based on deadline for ATP funding allocation through CT DLA/CTC

Not a Project of Air Quality Concern (40 CFR 93.123(b)(1))
(i) New or expanded highway projects with significant number/increase in diesel vehicles?
   − Not a new or expanded highway project
   − AADT (20,832 opening year 2018 and 27,016 horizon year 2040) is well under the 125,000
      threshold and truck traffic is relatively low (4%), and will not increase due to the project changes.

(ii) Affects intersections at LOS D, E, or F with a significant number of diesel vehicles?
   − Diesel vehicles represent less than 4% of intersection traffic volume
   − Intersections at LOS D, E, or F remain the same or improve, and delays decrease (2040)
   − No project changes to land use that would affect diesel traffic percentage

(iii) New bus and rail terminals and transfer points?—Not Applicable

(iv) Expanded bus and rail terminals and transfer points?—Not Applicable

(v) Affects areas identified in PM10 or PM2.5 implementation plan as site of violation?
  − No state implementation plan for PM2.5
  − Therefore, not identified in plan as an area of potential violation
                  Project Assessment Form for PM2.5 Interagency Consultation


RTIP ID# (required) 240381

TIP ID# (required) ALA150012

Air Quality Conformity Task Force Consideration Date
March 2016
Project Description (clearly describe project)

   The objective of the Project is to improve safety, appearance, and access for pedestrian, bicycle, and
   vehicular traffic along a 0.6-mile segment of MacArthur Boulevard between High Street and Richards
   Road. The improvements will include the replacement of existing pavement, sidewalks, curbs, medians,
   islands, traffic signals, streetlights and crosswalks. Traffic lanes will be reconfigured and bike lanes
   and a multi-use path trail will be added. Two new traffic signals at the intersections of MacArthur
   Boulevard/Calaveras Avenue and MacArthur Boulevard/Pierson Street will be installed. Landscaping
   and streetscape improvements will also be included.

   The project will not include additional traffic lanes. The project will not require any additional right-of-
   way or temporary construction easements.




Type of Project: Local Roadway Safety/Access Improvements




County           Narrative Location/Route & Postmiles
Alameda          The project is located on MacArthur Blvd. in the City of Oakland, extending from High St.
                 to just south of Richards Road, in approximately 0.6 mile in length, crossing under the I-
                 580 freeway.

             Caltrans Projects – EA# None. The PE design work is funded by local funds.
Lead Agency: City of Oakland
Contact Person             Phone#                 Fax#                          Email
                                                                                                   BAlaoui@oakland
Mohamed Alaoui                   510-238-3469                                                      net.com
Federal Action for which Project-Level PM Conformity is Needed (check appropriate box)
            Categorical
                                EA or                  FONSI or Final            PS&E or
   X        Exclusion                                                                                     Other
            (NEPA)              Draft EIS              EIS                       Construction
Scheduled Date of Federal Action:
NEPA Delegation – Project Type (check appropriate box)
                                     Section 326 –Categorical                       Section 327 – Non-
                                X
                                     Exclusion                                      Categorical Exclusion
Current Programming Dates (as appropriate)
                  PE/Environmental                           ENG                        ROW                CON
                                                                                                           July
    Start                 February 2015                   June 2015                August 2016
                                                                                                           2017
                                                                                                           May
    End                   August 8, 2016              September 2016               October 2016
                                                                                                           2018
                 PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation


Project Purpose and Need (Summary): (please be brief)
The existing pedestrian paths and bike lanes are discontinuous, and street configurations at several
locations are in conflict with pedestrians and bicyclists path of travel, creating unsafe conditions. The
purpose of the project is to improve bicycle and pedestrian safety and encourage active transportation by
providing continuous and safe paths of travel for vehicles, bicyclists, and pedestrians along the MacArthur
corridor. The goal of the project is to provide safe access for pedestrians and bicyclists accessing Mills
College, public transit and nearby destinations of variety of services; beautify the area; and, improve traffic
flow for pedestrian, bicyclists, and vehicles. (City Project No.: C478810)

Surrounding Land Use/Traffic Generators (especially effect on diesel traffic)
The project is located on MacArthur Boulevard between High Street and Richards Road.
The surrounding area consists of mix land use including retail, services, residential, public transit,
commercial, and school. MacArthur Boulevard provides access to and from I-580, and although trucks are
not prohibited, it is not part of the City of Oakland’s Truck Route network.
                 Project Assessment Form for PM2.5 Interagency Consultation


Brief summary of assumptions and methodology used for conducting analysis (please keep this concise –
specifics may include date of when traffic counts were conducted, studies where truck percentages were derived)
The following is a summary of the assumptions and methodologies used for conducting a traffic
analysis on the proposed streetscape project on MacArthur Boulevard:
    •   Intersection turn movement counts were collected for the AM (7 – 9 AM) and PM (4 – 6 PM) peak periods
        in November 2015. A total of 7 intersections were selected for analysis.
    •   Vehicle classification and count data were collected at one location over a one week period, 24-hours per
        day in order to estimate AADT and truck percentages.
    •   Intersection LOS was analyzed using both microsimulation (implemented via SimTraffic) and the
        methodologies outlined in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (implemented via Synchro 8). LOS findings
        presented in this form are based on the microsimulation as it was better able to model the interaction
        between the closely spaced intersections within the project boundaries.
    •   Cumulative volumes were developed using incremental growth from the latest version of the Alameda
        County Travel Demand Model. For roadways not in the model, percent growth of the nearest centroid
        connector was used to estimate growth on the minor side street approaches.
    •   Truck percentages under cumulative conditions were assumed to stay the same as they are under existing
        conditions.
                  PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation


Opening Year: If facility is a highway or street, Build and No Build LOS, AADT, % and # trucks, truck AADT
of proposed facility
Using 7 days of vehicle traffic count and classification data from MacArthur Boulevard in the
vicinity of the project and the latest travel demand model for Alameda County, the table below
presents the estimated AADT during opening year (2018).

              Opening Year 2018
 Condition     AADT      Trucks (#)   Trucks (%)
 No Build     20,832        790          4%
     Build                No Change


Calculated LOS findings for existing conditions at the seven intersections within the Project
limits include:

                                                   AM Peak Hour
                                                     No Build                        No Build        Build
 #                    Intersection                                 Build Control
                                                     Control                       Delay    LOS   Delay   LOS
 1      MacArthur Boulevard & Richards Road         Signalized      Signalized      35.4    D     36.0       D
 2      MacArthur Boulevard & Pierson Street       Two-way stop     Signalized     339.3    F      8.9       A
 3      MacArthur Boulevard & I-580 EB Ramp          Signalized     Signalized      37.2    D     18.8       B
 4       Buell Street & Calaveras Avenue            All-way stop   All-way stop     35.6    E     24.3       C
 5    MacArthur Boulevard & Calaveras Avenue       Two-way stop     Signalized      17.2    C     9.7        A
 6      MacArthur Boulevard & Enos Avenue          Two-way stop    Two-way stop     14.6    B     13.5       B
 7    MacArthur Boulevard & Green Acre Road        Two-way stop    Two-way stop     9.0     A     14.5       B
                                                   PM Peak Hour
                                                     No Build                        No Build        Build
 #                    Intersection                                 Build Control
                                                     Control                       Delay    LOS   Delay   LOS
 1      MacArthur Boulevard & Richards Road          Signalized     Signalized      21.7    C      9.5       A
 2      MacArthur Boulevard & Pierson Street       Two-way stop     Signalized     1421.5   F      7.7       A
 3      MacArthur Boulevard & I-580 EB Ramp         Signalized      Signalized      22.1    C     14.5       B
 4       Buell Street & Calaveras Avenue            All-way stop   All-way stop     25.1    D     18.6       C
 5    MacArthur Boulevard & Calaveras Avenue       Two-way stop     Signalized      16.4    C     12.3       B
 6     MacArthur Boulevard & Enos Avenue           Two-way stop    Two-way stop     9.8     A     13.1       B
 7    MacArthur Boulevard & Green Acre Road        Two-way stop    Two-way stop     7.7     A     19.2       C
                 Project Assessment Form for PM2.5 Interagency Consultation


RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is a highway or street, Build and No Build LOS, AADT, % and #
trucks, truck AADT of proposed facility


Using 7 days of vehicle traffic count and classification data from MacArthur Boulevard in the
vicinity of the project and the latest travel demand model for Alameda County, the table below
presents the estimated AADT during the horizon year (2040).

              Horizon Year 2040
 Condition    AADT      Trucks (#)   Trucks (%)
  No Build    27,016      1,062         4%
     Build               No Change


Calculated LOS findings for existing conditions at the seven intersections within the Project
limits include:

                                                  AM Peak Hour
                                                    No Build                        No Build         Build
 #                   Intersection                                 Build Control
                                                    Control                       Delay    LOS   Delay    LOS
 1      MacArthur Boulevard & Richards Road         Signalized     Signalized      33.2     C     34.8       C
 2      MacArthur Boulevard & Pierson Street      Two-way stop     Signalized     475.2     F     12.9       B
 3      MacArthur Boulevard & I-580 EB Ramp         Signalized     Signalized      58.6     E     62.5       E
 4        Buell Street & Calaveras Avenue          All-way stop   All-way stop     66.8     F     44.6       E
 5    MacArthur Boulevard & Calaveras Avenue      Two-way stop     Signalized      17.0     C     10.6       B
 6     MacArthur Boulevard & Enos Avenue          Two-way stop    Two-way stop     21.1     C     14.4       B
 7    MacArthur Boulevard & Green Acre Road       Two-way stop    Two-way stop     7.8      A     14.0       B
                                                  PM Peak Hour
                                                    No Build                        No Build         Build
 #                   Intersection                                 Build Control
                                                    Control                       Delay    LOS   Delay    LOS
 1      MacArthur Boulevard & Richards Road         Signalized     Signalized      33.8     C     31.8       C
 2      MacArthur Boulevard & Pierson Street      Two-way stop     Signalized     1521.5    F      8.9       A
 3      MacArthur Boulevard & I-580 EB Ramp         Signalized     Signalized      56.9     E     21.6       C
 4        Buell Street & Calaveras Avenue          All-way stop   All-way stop     73.4     F     74.4       F
 5    MacArthur Boulevard & Calaveras Avenue      Two-way stop     Signalized      34.9     D     9.4        A
 6     MacArthur Boulevard & Enos Avenue          Two-way stop    Two-way stop     21.0     C     17.5       C
 7    MacArthur Boulevard & Green Acre Road       Two-way stop    Two-way stop     10.8     B     16.3       C

Opening Year: If facility is an interchange(s) or intersection(s), Build and No Build cross-street AADT, %
and # trucks, truck AADT
See Above

RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is an interchange (s) or intersection(s), Build and No Build cross-
street AADT, % and # trucks, truck AADT
See Above
                  PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation


Opening Year: If facility is a bus, rail or intermodal facility/terminal/transfer point, # of bus arrivals for Build
and No Build, % and # of bus arrivals will be diesel buses
N/A – Not a bus, rail or intermodal facility



RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is a bus, rail or intermodal facility/terminal/transfer point, # of bus
arrivals for Build and No Build, % and # of bus arrivals will be diesel buses
N/A – Not a bus, rail or intermodal facility


Describe potential traffic redistribution effects of congestion relief (impact on other facilities)
This project is anticipated to have only minimal redistributive effects. There are minimal changes
to the number of lanes; elimination only. The project will also substantially improve signal timing
on the corridor reducing vehicle delay compared to the no build condition as shown above.
Therefore, the corridor is expected to operate better than the no build condition reducing the
probability of diversion.
                   Project Assessment Form for PM2.5 Interagency Consultation


Comments/Explanation/Details (please be brief)
Section 93.116(a) of 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) states that a Federal Highway Administration/Federal
Transit Agency (FHWA/FTA) project must not cause or contribute to any new localized PM2.5 violations or increase
the frequency or severity of any existing PM10 and PM2.5 violations in non-attainment or maintenance areas. The
regulations further state that projects may satisfy this requirement without an analysis of their potential to create PM
hot-spots provided they do not meet the following criteria:
         1) New or expanded highway projects that have a significant number of or significant increase in diesel
         vehicles (significant number is defined as greater than 125,000 Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) and
         8% or more of such AADT is diesel truck traffic, or in practice 10,000 truck AADT or more regardless of
         total AADT; significant increase is defined in practice as a 10% increase in heavy duty truck traffic);

         2) Projects affecting intersections that are at a Level of Service D, E, F, with a significant number of diesel
         vehicles, or that that will change to Level of Service D, E, or F because of increased traffic volumes from a
         significant number of diesel vehicles related to the project;

         3) New bus and rail terminals and transfer points that have a significant number of diesel vehicles
         congregating at a single location;

         4) Expanded bus and rail terminals and transfer points that significantly increase the number of diesel
         vehicles congregating at a single location; or

         5) Projects in or affecting locations, areas, or categories of sites which are identified in the PM2.5 or PM10
         implementation plan or implementation plan submission, as appropriate, as sites of possible violation.

The project does not meet any of these criteria as outlined below:
The project is limited to the reconfiguration of the existing roadway and intersections and will not create additional
vehicular travel lanes; bicycle and pedestrian facilities will be integrated, including Class II bicycle lanes, multi-use
pathways and sidewalks. Parking will be removed and vehicular travel lanes will be reconfigured to include class II
bicycle lanes. There will be no added or expanded bus or rail stations. No increase in truck traffic is anticipated due
to the project changes. Based on available traffic data estimates, the project is below criteria for Project of Air
Quality Concern (POAQC).
Traffic data has been assessed for existing and horizon years for the build and no-build condition for MacArthur
Boulevard and the 7 study intersections. The traffic data shows that the project will not result in increased traffic
based on the existing or horizon year models. Further, there will be no increase in the percentage of truck traffic
and the delay and Level of Service (LOS) will improve within the project limits.
Criteria 1 is not met since this project does not involve a new or expanded highway. The truck traffic is relatively
low (4%), and will not increase due to the project changes.
Although several intersections are projected to operate at LOS D, E, and F in the horizon year (2040) no-build and
build conditions, the degraded LOS would not be the result of the project. In fact, in year 2040, the project will
reduce delay and improve LOS along the corridor, as compared to no build conditions. Bottom line, Criteria 2 is
not met since the project will not result in increased traffic volumes from a significant number of diesel vehicles.
Criteria 3 and 4 do not apply to this project since the project does not involve bus or rail terminals or transfer
points that have a large number of diesel vehicles at one location.
Criteria 5 is not met since the project is not in, nor affecting locations, areas, or categories of sites identified in the
PM 2.5 or PM 10 implementation plan or implementation plan submission. Further, the project would have no effect
on the number of trucks using MacArthur Boulevard.
Since none of the criteria apply, the project is not a POAQC.
Neighborhoods
The project area extends from                                                 LAMMPS Project
High Street that borders the                                                  RTIP ID: 240381
Laurel Business District south to
Seminary Avenue that borders
                                                                              Begin Project
the Millsmont Commercial Area.
Source: Google Maps, 2003




                                                                 LAMMPS Project
                                                                 RTIP ID: 240381
                                                                 End Project




                                                         Future LAMMPS Phase 2
                                                         Not in this Project




Legend
Project Area




                      Laurel Access
                             ii
                                     to Mills, Maxwell Park, & Seminary (LAMMPS) Streetscape Project - City of Oakland, CA
                                   A Community-Based Transportation Plan for MacArthur Boulevard—City of Oakland California
                      Figure 1 - Project Site/Surrounding Land Use
1.01	Project Area
Many neighborhoods will
benefit from the proposed
improvements.


                                  LAMMPS Project
                                  RTIP ID: 240381
                                  Begin Project



                                                                                                                 LAMMPS Project
                                                                                                                 RTIP ID: 240381
                                                                                                                 End Project




                                                            Future LAMMPS Phase 2
                                                            Not in this Project


Legend
Project Area



                    Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park, & Seminary (LAMMPS) Streetscape Project - City of Oakland, CA
                          1.2     A Community-Based Transportation Plan for MacArthur Boulevard—City of Oakland California
                    Figure 2 - Project Site/Surrounding Land Use
                                                                                                              2.04	 Commercial Residential
                                                                                                              (1) A mix of commercial and
                                                                                                              residential uses borders the
                                                                                                              eastern edge of the corridor
                                                                                                              north of the freeway.
                                                                                                              2.05	 Residential
                                                                                                              (2) Residential uses of varying
                                                                                                              densities frame the west edge
                                                                                                              of the corridor south of the
                                                                                                              freeway.
                                                                                                              2.06	 Mills College
                                                                                                              (3) South of the freeway, the
                                                                                                              rustic landscape of Mills College
                                                                                                              dominates the eastern edge of
                                                                                                              MacArthur Boulevard.
                                                                                                              2.07	 Planning Context
                                                                                                              Four land uses border the
                                                                                                              corridor:
                                                                                                              (1) commercial-residential mix,
                                                                                                              (2) residential of varying
                                                                                                              densities,
                                                                                                              (3) institutional (Mills College),
                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                              (4) freeway (Caltrans)
                                                                                                              supporting the recommendation
                                                                                                              of proposed mixed developed
                                                                                                              and “rustic” aesthetic. Several
                                                                                                              parcels are proposed for
                                                                                                              development projects:
                                                                                                              (5) housing for seniors with
                                                                                                              ground floor commercial space,
                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                              (6) housing by Habitat for
                                                                                                              Humanity.




Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park, & Seminary (LAMMPS) Streetscape Project - City of Oakland, CA
                     LAMMPS: Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park, & Seminary Concept Design - City of Oakland California 2.3
Figure 3 - Surrounding Land Use
Laurel Access to Mills, Maxwell Park & Seminary (LAMMPS) Streetscape Project – City of Oakland, CA
Traffic Information


Table 1: Existing Conditions (2016)
                                                                                                                      Existing Conditions (2016)
                                               No Build                       AADT       % Trucks     Trucks                      AM                                     PM
#                Intersection                                Build Control   Existing/   Existing/   Existing/
                                               Control                                                              No-Build              Build            No-Build                  Build
                                                                             Opening     Opening     Opening
                                                                              Year*       Year*        Year      Delay      LOS     Delay         LOS    Delay        LOS         Delay      LOS
1    MacArthur Boulevard & Richards Road      Signalized      Signalized                                         35.4        D         36.0        D     21.7            C         9.5       A
2    MacArthur Boulevard & Pierson Street    Two-way stop     Signalized                                         339.3       F          8.9        A    1421.5           F         7.7       A
3    MacArthur Boulevard & I-580 EB Ramp      Signalized      Signalized                                          37.2       D         18.8        B     22.1            C        14.5       B
                                                                             19,844/       4%/         753/
4      Buell Street & Calaveras Avenue        All-way stop   All-way stop                                        35.6        E         24.3        C     25.1            D        18.6       C
                                                                             20,832        4%          790
5   MacArthur Boulevard & Calaveras Avenue   Two-way stop     Signalized                                         17.2        C          9.7        A     16.4            C        12.3       B
6     MacArthur Boulevard & Enos Avenue      Two-way stop    Two-way stop                                        14.6        B         13.5        B      9.8            A        13.1       B
7   MacArthur Boulevard & Green Acre Road    Two-way stop    Two-way stop                                           9.0      A         14.5        B      7.7            A        19.2        C
* Opening Year is 2018




Table 2: Horizon (Design) Year (2040)
                                                                                                                    Horizon (Design) Year (2040)
                                               No Build                                                                           AM                                         PM
#                Intersection                                Build Control    AADT       % Trucks     Trucks
                                               Control                                                              No-Build              Build            No-Build                  Build
                                                                                                                 Delay      LOS        Delay      LOS    Delay        LOS         Delay      LOS
1    MacArthur Boulevard & Richards Road      Signalized      Signalized                                         33.2        C         34.8        C      33.8           C        31.8        C
2    MacArthur Boulevard & Pierson Street    Two-way stop     Signalized                                         475.2       F         12.9        B    1521.5           F         8.9        A
3    MacArthur Boulevard & I-580 EB Ramp      Signalized      Signalized                                          58.6       E         62.5        E     56.9            E        21.6        C
4      Buell Street & Calaveras Avenue        All-way stop   All-way stop    27,016         4%        1,062      66.8        F         44.6        E      73.4           F        74.4        F
5   MacArthur Boulevard & Calaveras Avenue   Two-way stop     Signalized                                         17.0        C         10.6        B      34.9           D         9.4        A
6     MacArthur Boulevard & Enos Avenue      Two-way stop    Two-way stop                                        21.1        C         14.4        B      21.0           C        17.5        C
7   MacArthur Boulevard & Green Acre Road    Two-way stop    Two-way stop                                           7.8      A         14.0        B      10.8           B        16.3        C


                                                                                                           Legend
                                                                                                                    Reduction in LOS (due to slight increase in delay)
                                                                                                                    No Change in LOS (no appreciable difference in delay)
                                                                                                                    Improvement in LOS (due to slight to significant reduction in delay)
                     Application of Criteria for a Project of Air Quality Concern
Project Title: US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project Summary for Air Quality Conformity Task Force Meeting: (April 2016)


Description
     Project will construct a bicyclist/pedestrian overcrossing, widen the southbound off-ramp to provide
      an additional right turn lane, and tighten the northbound loop off-ramp radius to improve merging
      while enhance safety for pedestrians and bicyclists in the city of East Palo Alto.
     No change to US 101 mainline
     Proposed overcrossing improves bicyclist and pedestrian connections between both sides off US
      101
     New southbound ramp configuration will improve operations at the ramp termini intersection

Background
     NEPA process for CE/CE is underway
     No comments received on air quality thus far
     Seeking air quality conformity determination on or before (Insert Date)
     Schedule based on deadline for SMCTA Measure A funding allocation

Not a Project of Air Quality Concern (40 CFR 93.123(b)(1))
(i) New or expanded highway projects with significant number/increase in diesel vehicles?
    Not a new or expanded highway project
    Interchange replacement—no additional lanes on US 101
    No change in traffic volume or truck percentages on US 101
   
(ii) Affects intersections at LOS D, E, or F with a significant number of diesel vehicles?
    Project will only affect the southbound ramp termini intersection. The build and no-build intersection
        LOS will be at LOS C, with minor improvement is anticipated in delay (2040).
    No project changes to land use that would affect diesel traffic percentage
   
(iii) New bus and rail terminals and transfer points?—Not Applicable

(iv) Expanded bus and rail terminals and transfer points?—Not Applicable

(v) Affects areas identified in PM10 or PM2.5 implementation plan as site of violation?
   No state implementation plan for PM2.5 (due by December 2012)
   Therefore, not identified in plan as an area of potential violation
   Nearest PM10 or PM2.5 violations in 2007 in Redwood City, 7 miles northwest
                  Project Assessment Form for PM2.5 Interagency Consultation


RTIP ID# (required) 21607

TIP ID# (required) SM-07006

Air Quality Conformity Task Force Consideration Date
April 2016
Project Description (clearly describe project)
The project will construct a bicycle/pedestrian overcrossing to improve non-motorized connectivity along
University Avenue across US101 between both sides of the freeway; widen the southbound loop off-
ramp to provide an additional right turn lane at the ramp termini intersection; and tighten the northbound
loop off-ramp entry radius to provide improved merging for traffic onto westbound University Avenue
while enhancing safety for pedestrians and bicyclists crossing the off-ramp.




Type of Project: Reconfigure existing interchange
Pick one project type: New State highway, Change to existing State highway, New regionally significant street,
Change to existing regionally significant street, New interchange, Reconfigure existing interchange, Intersection
Channelization, Intersection signalization, Roadway realignment, Bus, rail or intermodal facility/terminal/transfer
point, Truck weight/inspection station

County            Narrative Location/Route & Postmiles The project is locate at the
SM                US101/University Avenue interchange in the city of East Palo Alto in San Mateo
                  County, Postmiles: 0.8/1.4

              Caltrans Projects – EA# 04-272820
Lead Agency: City of East Palo Alto
Contact Person              Phone#                    Fax#                      Email
                                                                               kfallaha@cityofepa.org
Kamal Fallaha               650-853-3189              650-853-3179
Federal Action for which Project-Level PM Conformity is Needed (check appropriate box)
           Categorical
                                   EA or                  FONSI or Final              PS&E or
   X       Exclusion                                                                                            Other
           (NEPA)                  Draft EIS              EIS                         Construction
Scheduled Date of Federal Action: 11/6/2015
NEPA Delegation – Project Type (check appropriate box)
                                 X Section 326 –Categorical                        Section 327 – Non-
                                     Exclusion                                     Categorical Exclusion
Current Programming Dates (as appropriate)
                   PE/Environmental                  ENG                 ROW                               CON
    Start               10/24/2014                7/25/2015            12/7/2015                        9/23/2016
    End                 11/06/2015                 7/8/2016            1/29/2016                        10/15/2017
Project Purpose and Need (Summary): (please be brief)
   1. To improve traffic operations at the US101/University Avenue interchange
    2. To reduce existing pedestrian-bicyclist/vehicle conflicts at the interchange
    3. To provide safe pedestrian and bicyclist connectivity across the freeway
                  PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation


Surrounding Land Use/Traffic Generators (especially effect on diesel traffic)
The existing land uses surrounding the project comprise of office, hotel, and large retail centers as well
as residential units.



Brief summary of assumptions and methodology used for conducting analysis (please keep this concise –
specifics may include date of when traffic counts were conducted, studies where truck percentages were derived)
A Caltrans traffic operations analysis report has been prepared and is being reviewed by Caltrans.
Traffic counts were taken in January 2015. Truck percentages were extracted from Caltrans published
volumes for freeways.
Opening Year: If facility is a highway or street, Build and No Build LOS, AADT, % and # trucks, truck AADT
of proposed facility
N/A



RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is a highway or street, Build and No Build LOS, AADT, % and #
trucks, truck AADT of proposed facility
N/A




Opening Year: If facility is an interchange(s) or intersection(s), Build and No Build cross-street AADT, %
and # trucks, truck AADT
The 2020 AADT for the southbound off-ramp is projected at 13,600. Build and no-build will operate at
LOS C. No truck count was obtained for the ramp intersection. The truck percentage for US101 is
4.23%.

RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is an interchange (s) or intersection(s), Build and No Build cross-
street AADT, % and # trucks, truck AADT
The 2040 AADT for the southbound off-ramp is projected at 16,800. Build and no-build will operate at
LOS C. No information is available for truck traffic on the freeway nor the ramp for 2040.


Opening Year: If facility is a bus, rail or intermodal facility/terminal/transfer point, # of bus arrivals for Build
and No Build, % and # of bus arrivals will be diesel buses
N/A



RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is a bus, rail or intermodal facility/terminal/transfer point, # of bus
arrivals for Build and No Build, % and # of bus arrivals will be diesel buses
N/A




Describe potential traffic redistribution effects of congestion relief (impact on other facilities)
N/A
               Project Assessment Form for PM2.5 Interagency Consultation


Comments/Explanation/Details (please be brief)
None.
Memorandum

Date:           May 14, 2015
To:             Phillip Cox, Caltrans Travel Forecasting Branch
                Lance Hall, Caltrans Traffic Operations Branch
Copies To:      Ramsey Hissen, URS Corporation
                Daniel Ho, URS Corporation
                Kamal Fallaha, City Engineer East Palo Alto
                Maziar Bozorginia, Senior Civil Engineer East Palo Alto

From:           Jill Hough
                Trisha Dudala
Subject:        East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement Project-
                Traffic Operations Analysis



Introduction
This report has been prepared to present the results of the traffic operations analysis for the East Palo Alto
US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement Project.
The City of East Palo Alto is proposing to make improvements to the existing US 101/University Avenue
interchange by modifying the US 101 southbound loop off-ramp and by constructing bicycle and pedestrian
facilities across US 101 along University Avenue. The improvements would consist of widening the existing
intersection of the southbound off-ramp at University Avenue to accommodate dual left-turn lanes and dual
right-turn lanes. The number of lanes on the off-ramp exiting the freeway would remain the same. The
improvements also include reconfiguring the northbound loop off-ramp to bring it closer to the intersection of
University Avenue and Donohoe Street to enhance bicycle and pedestrian safety. Also, an acceleration lane
measuring approximately 200 feet in length is proposed on University Avenue, just south of Donohoe Street
so that vehicles from the northbound loop off-ramp can accelerate before merging into the through traffic on
University Avenue. Currently, the northbound loop-off ramp merges with University Avenue approximately 100
feet south of the intersection of University Avenue and Donohoe Street without any acceleration lane.
An alternative design concept that includes "squaring" the northbound loop off-ramp intersection with
University Avenue so that it would be controlled by the Donohoe Street signal, to enhance bicycle and
pedestrian safety was also analyzed.
The traffic operations analyses were performed under existing conditions as well as with forecast traffic
volumes. Future traffic operations were analyzed under the No Project scenario (No Build) and the scenario
with the proposed interchange improvement (Build alternative).

Intersections
In coordination with Caltrans, the following intersections were selected for analysis:
            1. US 101 NB Ramps and Donohoe Street,
            2. University Avenue and Donohoe Street,
            3. University Avenue and US 101 SB Ramps, and
East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project – Travel Demand Forecasting and Traffic Operations Analysis                                May 14, 2015


            4. University Avenue and Woodland Avenue.
Note:- Because of the orientation of University Avenue and Donohoe Street in the study area, University
Avenue is referred to as a north/south roadway and Donohoe Street as an east/west roadway throughout this
report.
The proposed interchange improvements were analyzed using Synchro/SimTraffic (Version 8) software
developed by Trafficware.
Traffic operations analyses were conducted for the following scenarios:
Existing Conditions Analysis – A representation of the existing roadway network was prepared using
Synchro. The Synchro model was calibrated to existing conditions based on existing AM and PM peak hour
traffic volumes, existing lane geometries, existing signal timings/phasings and observed peak hour vehicular
queues.
Year 2040 No Project Conditions – Year 2040 no project conditions were analyzed using existing lane
configurations at the study intersections and using the Year 2040 AM and PM peak hour volumes. Year 2040
traffic forecasts were obtained from the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA). These forecasts
were used in conjunction with the existing intersection counts to develop intersection turning movement
forecasts for all study intersections.
Year 2040 Plus Project Conditions – The project conditions refer to the proposed roadway improvements at
the US 101/University Avenue interchange. The proposed improvements include widening the US 101
southbound loop off-ramp to include dual left-turn lanes and dual-right turn lanes and reconfiguring the US
101 northbound loop-off ramp to bring it closer to the intersection of University Avenue and Donohoe Street to
enhance bicycle and pedestrian safety. Year 2040 plus project conditions were analyzed using Year 2040
intersection turning movements with the proposed US 101/University Avenue interchange improvements. The
2040 traffic forecasts are the same with or without the project because the improvements are not enough to
change the travel model network or to influence traffic patterns.
Project Opening Year Analysis – It is assumed that the proposed project would be completed by Year 2020.
The opening year analysis was conducted for the No Project Alternative and Plus Project Alternative. Year
2020 traffic volumes were interpolated based on existing counts and Year 2040 forecasts derived from the
model.
These scenarios are discussed in detail in the following sections of this report.

Existing Conditions
AM and PM peak hour field observations were conducted in January 2015. In general, during the AM peak
hour, southbound University Avenue and westbound Donohoe Street are heavily congested. During the PM
peak hour, northbound University Avenue and eastbound Donohoe Street (east of University Avenue) are
congested.
US 101 NB Ramp/Donohoe Street – This is an unsignalized intersection, where the westbound left-turns
should yield to the eastbound traffic. During the AM peak hour long queues develop in the westbound left-turn
lane. During the AM peak hour, there is a demand of 800 to 900 vehicles on the US 101 northbound on-ramp
from Donohoe Street and E. Bayshore Road. This ramp is metered during the AM peak hour, and
occasionally vehicular queues from the ramp meter extend all the way to Donohoe Street. Since the
westbound left-turning vehicles from Donohoe Street have to find gaps in the eastbound through traffic,
queues are developed in the westbound left-turn lane on Donohoe Street that extend past the upstream
intersection of University Avenue. Vehicles would frequently use the through lane adjacent to the left-turn lane
to merge into the left-turn lane blocking the westbound through traffic. Also, long queues exist in the
eastbound through lane. The long queues in the eastbound through lane develop because occasionally the
right-turning traffic onto the US 101 northbound ramp blocks the through traffic. Occasionally the eastbound
through traffic could not enter the intersection because of downstream queuing in the eastbound right-turn
lane at the intersection of University Avenue and Donohoe Street that extends past the intersection of US 101
northbound ramp and Donohoe Street thus blocking the right-turn traffic.
                                                                                                    Page |2
East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project – Travel Demand Forecasting and Traffic Operations Analysis                                May 14, 2015


During the PM peak hour, no significant traffic related issues occur at this intersection. The westbound left-
turn traffic queue is contained within the left-turn lane and does not block the through traffic. The westbound
left-turning traffic onto the US 101 northbound ramp can easily find gaps in the eastbound through traffic.
During the PM peak hour, there is no ramp metering at the US 101 northbound ramps and as such there are
no long queues on the ramp.
University Avenue/Donohoe Street– This is a signalized intersection that operates with split phasing for the
eastbound and westbound approaches with a cycle length of 140 seconds during both the AM and PM peak
hours. During the AM peak hour, long queues occur on southbound University Avenue that extend to Bell
Street. Long queues also occur in the eastbound right-turn lane and in the westbound inner through lane,
which is a trap lane for the downstream left-turn lane onto the US 101 northbound ramp. Although there is a
“Do Not Block Intersection” sign posted on all approaches at this intersection, vehicles occasionally block the
intersection as a result of queuing on downstream Donohoe Street to access the US 101 northbound ramp.
Vehicles that block the intersection conflict with pedestrians during the ped-crossing phase of the west leg.
During the PM peak hour, the peak direction of traffic is northbound University Avenue. Vehicular queues on
northbound University Avenue ocassionally extend back to the upstream intersection of University Avenue
and US 101 southbound ramps.
University Avenue/US 101 SB Ramps – This intersection currently operates in close coordination with the
intersection of University Avenue and Woodland Avenue with a cycle length of 120 seconds in the AM and
PM peak hours. During the AM peak hour this intersection operates without any significant traffic related
issues. Occasionally, long queues develop in the southbound left-turn lane towards the US 101 southbound
on-ramp that spill into the inner through lane on University Avenue. However, most of the time, these queues
are able to clear in one signal cycle length.
During the PM peak hour, vehicular queues on northbound University Avenue extend past the upstream
intersection of Woodland Avenue. Vehicular queues on the US 101 southbound off-ramp are able to clear in
one signal cycle.
University Avenue/Woodland Avenue - This intersection currently operates in close coordination with the
intersection of University Avenue and US 101 southbound ramps with a cycle length of 120 seconds in the
AM and PM peak hours. The eastbound and westbound approaches on Woodland Avenue operate with split
phasing. During the AM peak hour this intersection operates without any significant traffic related issues.
Occasionally the southbound traffic on University Avenue extends upstream up to the intersection of the US
101 southbound ramps.
During the PM peak hour, long vehicular queues occur on northbound University Avenue that extend all the
way back to the upstream intersection of Lincoln Avenue.

Existing Conditions Calibration
A representation of the existing roadway network was prepared using Synchro/SimTraffic (Version 8) software
developed by Trafficware. The study area included the following intersections:

               US 101 NB Ramps and Donohoe Street

               University Avenue and Donohoe Street

               University Avenue and US 101 SB Ramps

               University Avenue and Woodland Avenue
In addition, the intersection of University Avenue and Bell Street was coded in the network in order to include
the queues on the University Avenue north approach (University Avenue between Donohoe Street and Bell
Street) in the evaluation of traffic operations. Existing AM and PM peak hour volumes for the University
Avenue and Bell Street intersection were based on a 2012 count that was conducted for a previous traffic
study. The count was adjusted to reflect growth in traffic based on the new counts at the University Avenue &
Donohoe Street intersection. Traffic operations were analyzed for a two hour duration during the morning
peak (7:00 AM to 9:00 AM) and a two hour duration during the evening peak (4:00 PM to 6:00 PM) in order to

                                                                                                     Page |3
East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project – Travel Demand Forecasting and Traffic Operations Analysis                                 May 14, 2015


capture the total demand rather than only the demand served at the intersections. A seeding time of 45
minutes was assumed for each evaluation run so that the demand was taken into account before recording
the runs for 2 hours. The existing network was calibrated to represent existing conditions based on existing
AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes, existing lane geometries, existing signal timing/phasing and observed
peak hour vehicular queues. The exising AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes at the study intersections are
shown on Figure 1. At least 10 simulation runs were conducted for each scenario using SimTraffic. Table 1
below shows a comparison of input volume versus the served volume based on the SimTraffic performance
report. As shown in Table 1, at all four study intersections the volume served is 97% or higher during both the
AM and PM peak hour existing conditions. Also shown in the table is the Geoffrey E. Havers (GEH) statistic.
The GEH Statistic is a formula used in traffic engineering and traffic modeling to compare two sets of traffic
volumes. The input volume is compared against the served volume in the simulation model. A GEH value of
less than 5.0 is considered a good match between the input volume and volume served. As shown in Table 1,
the GEH statistic for all four intersections was calculated to be less than 2.0 indicating that the volume served
at each intersection matched closely to the turning movement counts collected in the field.

Table 1
Existing Conditions Calibration


                                                                             Existing Conditions
                                                      Peak     Input      Served       % Volume         GEH 
          Intersection                                Hour    Volume      Volume        Served        Statistic
    1     Donohoe Street/US 101 NB On‐Ramp             AM       1632       1593           98%           0.97
                                                       PM       1560       1558          100%           0.05
    2     Donohoe Street/University Avenue             AM       3804       3712           98%           1.50
                                                       PM       4206       4200          100%           0.09
    3     US 101 SB Off‐Ramp/University Avenue         AM       4326       4199           97%           1.95
                                                       PM       3849       3835          100%           0.23
    4     Woodland Avenue/University Avenue            AM       3452       3372           98%           1.37
                                                       PM       3004       2990          100%           0.26
  Note:
1. Based on SimTraffic simulation for a 2 hour duration.


In order to further validate existing conditions, the average queues on all approaches at each intersection
were analyzed. In general, at all study intersections, the average queues based on the existing conditions
Simtraffic model were found to match closely with the queues that were observed in the field.
Table 2 below shows the weighted average intersection delays at all four study intersections based on
SimTraffic reports and also the delay based on HCM 2000 Methodology.
Based on the microscopic simulation model, the intersection of US 101 northbound ramp and Donohoe Street
currently operates at LOS D during the AM peak hour and at LOS A during the PM peak hour period. The
intersection of University Avenue and Donohoe Street currently operates at LOS F during the AM peak hour
and LOS D during the PM peak hour. The poor LOS during the AM peak hour is attributed to the long
vehicular queues on southbound University Avenue and westbound Donohoe Street. The intersection of
University Avenue and US 101 southbound ramps currently operates at LOS D during the AM peak hour and
LOS C during the PM peak hour. The intersection of University Avenue and Woodland Avenue currently
operates at LOS D during the AM peak hour and LOS E during the PM peak hour. The poor LOS during the
PM peak hour is attributed to the long vehicular queues on northbound University, along with traffic on
Woodland Avenue heading towards northbound University Avenue.




                                                                                                     Page |4
East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project – Travel Demand Forecasting and Traffic Operations Analysis                                                May 14, 2015


Table 2
Existing Conditions Intersection Delay (SimTraffic Report)
                                                                                         Existing
                                                                                1                                             2
                                                                    SimTraffic                          Synchro (HCM 2000) 
                                                   Peak 
         Intersection                              Hour        Delay             LOS                       Delay        LOS
                                              3
   1     Donohoe Street/US 101 NB On‐Ramp           AM          42.3                D                       6.4          A
                                                    PM           3.7                A                       3.8          A
   2     Donohoe Street/University Avenue           AM          107.3               F                      63.6          E
                                                    PM          54.1                D                      48.1          D
   3     US 101 SB Off‐Ramp/University Avenue       AM          48.5                D                      29.7          C
                                                    PM          29.3                C                      33.6          C
   4     Woodland Avenue/University Avenue          AM          42.7                D                      30.8          C
                                                    PM           59                 E                      41.2          D
 Note:
1. Delay based on SimTraffic simulation of individual vehicles and LOS correlated to Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) 2000 
methodology.

2. Delay based on Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) 2000 methodology.
3. Delay reported from Synchro at this unsignalized intersection is the weighted average delay incurred by all vehicles at the 
intersection. The delay associated with the westbound left‐turning vehicles is 23.0 seconds (LOS C) during the AM peak hour 
and 9.6 seconds (LOS A) during the PM peak hour.

Existing Plus Project Conditions
Project conditions refer to the following improvements at the interchange:
US 101 Northbound Off-ramp: The improvement is to reconfigure the US 101 northbound loop off-ramp to
provide, an acceleration lane approximately 200 feet in length to southbound University Avenue. This would
allow vehicular traffic coming from the northbound off-ramp to accelerate and merge onto southbound
University Avenue and would provide much better visibility for vehicles to see and yield to pedestrians and
bicycles. Currently, the northbound off-ramp merges at a 30 degree angle approximately 75 feet south of the
Donohoe Street/University Avenue intersection with no acceleration lane.
Because this realigned ramp is a very subtle change to vehicular operations, it does not produce a change in
the Simtraffic model. However, we believe that the realignment of the northbound off-ramp would allow
vehicles coming from the US 101 northbound loop-off ramp to accelerate before merging onto southbound
University Avenue. This would potentially reduce queuing on the northbound loop-off ramp.
US 101 Southbound Off-Ramp: The improvement consists of adding a fourth lane to the off-ramp as it
approaches University Avenue such that there would be dual left turn lanes and dual right turn lanes at the
intersection. Currently, the southbound off-ramp includes a left-turn lane, a shared left-right lane and a
separate right turn lane. This improvement was evaluated under existing and future traffic volume conditions.
The project improvements are shown on Figure 2.
The proposed improvements were coded on top of the calibrated existing conditions AM and PM peak hour
models and the traffic operations were analyzed using SimTraffic. The Simtraffic model was not able to show
any significant changes in traffic operations within the system with the improvements. The improvements only
affect the University Avenue/US 101 southbound off-ramp intersection, and this intersection is not really
experiencing any problems under existing conditions.




                                                                                                                    Page |6
East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project – Travel Demand Forecasting and Traffic Operations Analysis                             May 14, 2015



The intersection delay was analyzed using Synchro based on HCM 2000 methodology. Table 3 below
shows a comparison of existing and existing plus project AM and PM peak hour weighted average delay and
LOS at the US101 Southbound off-ramp intersection, which is the only intersection that would be affected by
the improvement. There would be a slight improvement in average delay with the project.

Table 3
Existing Plus Project Conditions Intersection Delay (HCM 2000 Methodology)
                                                                    Existing           Existing + Project
                                                     Peak 
          Intersection                               Hour       Delay       LOS         Delay      LOS
    3     US 101 SB Off‐Ramp/University Avenue        AM         29.7        C           29.4       C
                                                      PM         33.6        C           31.3       C
 Note:
1. Delay and LOS based on Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) 2000 methodology.


Year 2040 Conditions
VTA provided traffic volume plots derived from their year 2040 travel demand model. The model plots
displayed 4-hour morning and afternoon peak period volumes. Hexagon derived AM and PM peak-hour
volumes from the plots using factors derived from the Palo Alto General Plan Study. The AM and PM peak
hour volumes were used as the basis for intersection operations analyses for 2040 project and no project
alternatives. Year 2040 AM and PM peak hour turning movement volumes are shown on Figure 3.
Table 4 below shows the average weighted intersection delay and level of service with and without the project
based on HCM 2000 methodology using Synchro.

Table 4
Year 2040 Conditions Intersection Delay (HCM 2000 Methodology)
                                                                   Year 2040          Year 2040 + Project
                                                     Peak 
          Intersection                               Hour       Delay       LOS         Delay      LOS
    3     US 101 SB Off‐Ramp/University Avenue        AM         37.3        C           34.1       C
                                                      PM         40.6        C           39.9       C
 Note:
1. Delay and LOS based on Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) 2000 methodology.



With the proposed project the weighted average delay at the intersection of University Avenue and US 101
southbound off-ramp is expected to improve and the intersection would continue to operate at an acceptable
LOS C during both the AM and PM peak hour period.




                                                                                                  Page |9
East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project – Travel Demand Forecasting and Traffic Operations Analysis                               May 14, 2015


Project Opening Year Analysis (Year 2020)
 It is assumed that the proposed project would be completed by Year 2020. The opening year analysis was
conducted for the No Project Alternative and Plus Project Alternative. Year 2020 traffic volumes were
interpolated based on existing counts and Year 2040 forecasts derived from the model. Year 2040 traffic
volumes are shown on Figure 4. Year 2020 conditions were analyzed based on the existing signal timings
and splits. Table 6 below shows the average weighted intersection delay and level of service for the project
opening year analysis.

Table 5
Year 2020 Conditions Intersection Delay (HCM 2000 Methodology)
                                                                     Year 2020          Year 2020 + Project
                                                      Peak 
          Intersection                                Hour       Delay       LOS         Delay       LOS
    3     US 101 SB Off‐Ramp/University Avenue         AM         31.4        C            31         C
                                                       PM         34.9        C           32.2        C
 Note:
1. Delay and LOS based on Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) 2000 methodology.


With the proposed project, the weighted average delay at the intersection of University Avenue and US 101
southbound off-ramp is expected to improve in the AM and PM peak hour periods under project opening year
conditions.




                                                                                                  P a g e | 11
East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvement
Project – Travel Demand Forecasting and Traffic Operations Analysis                             May 14, 2015


Alternative Design Concept
An alternative design concept that includes "squaring" the northbound loop off-ramp intersection with
University Avenue so that it would be controlled by the Donohoe Street signal, to enhance bicycle and
pedestrian safety was also analyzed with existing traffic volumes. With this design, by having the vehicles
from the US 101 northbound loop-off ramp controlled by the signal at University Avenue and Donohoe Street,
it was found that the traffic operations at the University Avenue/Donohoe Street intersection would further
degrade, especially during the AM peak hour period. This would result in long vehicular queues on the off-
ramp, extending onto the US 101 freeway mainline. Therefore this design concept was rejected and no further
analysis was conducted.

Conclusions
Based on the traffic operations analysis presented in this report, the improvement at the intersection of
University Avenue/US 101 southbound off-ramp intersection which includes dual left-turn lanes and dual right-
turn lanes would result in a slight improvement in traffic operations in the study area. Although the
improvements proposed for the northbound US 101 off-ramp, which include reconfiguring the northbound loop
off-ramp to provide an acceleration lane could not be effectively evaluated with the Synchro/Simtraffic
software, these improvements would enhance bicycle and pedestrian and safety and could potentially reduce
queuing on the US 101 northbound loop off-ramp.




                                                                                                P a g e | 13
              Appendix


East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue
   Interchange Improvement Project
        Traffic Operations Analysis
www.idaxdata.com




                                              Driveway
                                             Donohoe St
                                                                                                                          Date: 01/13/2015
                       N                          Peak Hour                                                       Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                    Peak Hour: 7:15 AM to 8:15 AM


                                                  2



                                                                1
                                  Driveway




                                                                    0
                                                   1
                                             1



                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                  Donohoe St

                              0                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                9
             215                                                                                   655                                                           0
                                                 TEV: 1,595                        214                                     0
                              0
                                                                                                                           3                                     3




                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                 PHF: 0.91                         440
             938           544
                                                                                                   544                     0                                     0
                           394                                                    0                                                             0

                     Donohoe St
                                                                                                          HV %:     PHF
                                                                                  Ramp
                                                                              US 101 NB
                                                        0

                                                             0

                                                                    0
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                  EB      1.3%      0.95
                                                                                                 WB       3.2%      0.86
                                                                                                 NB         -        -
                                                                                                  SB      0.0%      0.50
                                                  835



                                                                0




                                                                                                TOTAL     2.1%      0.91
     Two-Hour Count Summaries
                           Donohoe St                            Donohoe St                       US 101 NB Ramp                       Driveway
        Interval                                                                                                                                            15-min    Rolling
                            Eastbound                            Westbound                          Northbound                        Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                              Total   One Hour
                     UT     LT    TH          RT        UT        LT   TH              RT      UT    LT    TH    RT            UT      LT    TH     RT
        7:00 AM       0      0     91         66         0        107  39               0       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      0       303        0
        7:15 AM       0      0    135         104        0        105  46               1       0     0     0     0             0       0     1      0       392        0
        7:30 AM       0      0    147         96         0        113  40               0       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      1       397        0
        7:45 AM       0      0    119         91         0        106  54               0       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      0       370      1,462
        8:00 AM       0      0    143         103        0        116  74               0       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      0       436      1,595
        8:15 AM       0      0    138         46         0        97   60               2       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      0       343      1,546
        8:30 AM       0      0    163         55         1        117  49               1       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      0       386      1,535
        8:45 AM       0      0    133         42         0        94   43               2       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      0       314      1,479
      Count Total     0      0   1,069        603        1        855  405              6       0     0     0     0             0       0     1      1      2,941       0
              All     0      0    544         394        0        440  214              1       0     0     0     0             0       0     1      1      1,595       0
      Peak
              HV      0      0     8           4         0        14    7               0       0     0     0     0             0       0     0      0        33        0
      Hour
             HV%      -      -    1%          1%         -        3%   3%              0%       -     -     -     -             -       -    0%     0%       2%         0
     Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

        Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                              Bicycles                                 Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
          Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                  Total   EB               WB      NB       SB      Total       East      West      North    South       Total
        7:00 AM       5       8       0       0                   13      0                0       0        0       0           0          0         1         0         1
       7:15 AM        5       7       0       0                   12      0                3       0        0       3           0          0         1         0         1
       7:30 AM        3       3       0       0                   6       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         4         0         4
       7:45 AM        4       4       0       0                   8       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         1         0         1
       8:00 AM        0       7       0       0                   7       3                0       0        0       3           0          0         3         0         3
        8:15 AM       0       2       0       0                   2       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         4         0         4
        8:30 AM       1       3       0       0                   4       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         0         0         0
        8:45 AM       4       1       0       0                   5       0                1       0        0       1           0          0         2         0         2
      Count Total    22       35      0       0                   57      3                4       0        0       7           0          0         16        0         16
      Peak Hour      12       21      0       0                   33      3                3       0        0       6           0          0         9         0         9




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                       deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                               Donohoe St                    Donohoe St                  US 101 NB Ramp                  Driveway
        Interval                                                                                                                              15-min    Rolling
                               Eastbound                     Westbound                      Northbound                   Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                Total   One Hour
                      UT       LT    TH      RT      UT      LT    TH       RT      UT       LT    TH     RT     UT       LT    TH    RT
         7:00 AM       0        0       3        2   0        7        1        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     13        0
        7:15 AM        0        0       4        1   0        4        3        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     12        0
        7:30 AM        0        0       2        1   0        2        1        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     6         0
        7:45 AM        0        0       2        2   0        3        1        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     8         39
        8:00 AM        0        0       0        0   0        5        2        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     7         33
         8:15 AM       0        0       0        0   0        0        2        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     2         23
         8:30 AM       0        0       0        1   0        2        1        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     4         21
         8:45 AM       0        0       3        1   0        1        0        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     5         18
      Count Total      0        0       14       8   0        24       11       0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     57        0
       Peak Hour       0        0       8        4   0        14       7        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     33        0


     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                               Donohoe St                    Donohoe St                  US 101 NB Ramp                  Driveway
        Interval                                                                                                                              15-min    Rolling
                           Eastbound                     Westbound                      Northbound                   Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                Total   One Hour
                        LT    TH     RT               LT    TH     RT                LT     TH     RT             LT     TH     RT
         7:00 AM           0        0        0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         0
        7:15 AM            0        0        0           0         3        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         3         0
        7:30 AM            0        0        0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         0
        7:45 AM            0        0        0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         3
        8:00 AM            0        3        0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         3         6
         8:15 AM           0        0        0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         3
         8:30 AM           0        0        0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         3
         8:45 AM           0        0        0           0         1        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         1         4
      Count Total          0        3        0           0         4        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         7         0
       Peak Hour           0        3        0           0         3        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         6         0
     Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                         deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




                                              Driveway
                                             Donohoe St
                                                                                                                          Date: 01/13/2015
                       N                          Peak Hour                                                       Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                    Peak Hour: 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM


                                                  18



                                                                2
                                  Driveway


                                             13




                                                                    0
                                                   3

                                                            2




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                  Donohoe St

                              0                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                14
             981                                                                                  1,342                                                           0
                                                  TEV: 1,701                       968                                     0
                              0
                                                                                                                           0                                      3




                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                  PHF: 0.97                        372
             341           269
                                                                                                   271                     0                                      0
                            72                                                    0                                                             0

                     Donohoe St
                                                                                                          HV %:     PHF
                                                                                  Ramp
                                                                              US 101 NB
                                                        0

                                                             0

                                                                    0
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                  EB      1.5%      0.81
                                                                                                 WB       0.7%      0.98
                                                                                                 NB         -        -
                                                                                                  SB      0.0%      0.64
                                                  447



                                                                0




                                                                                                TOTAL     0.9%      0.97
     Two-Hour Count Summaries
                           Donohoe St                            Donohoe St                       US 101 NB Ramp                       Driveway
        Interval                                                                                                                                             15-min    Rolling
                            Eastbound                            Westbound                          Northbound                        Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                               Total   One Hour
                     UT     LT    TH          RT        UT        LT   TH              RT      UT    LT    TH    RT            UT      LT    TH      RT
        4:00 PM       0      0     72         16         0        100  174              2       0     0     0     1             0       0     0       2       367        0
        4:15 PM       0      0     70         14         0        110  191              0       0     0     0     0             0       1     2       1       389        0
        4:30 PM       0      0     68         14         0        108  212              0       0     0     0     0             0       0     1       1       404        0
        4:45 PM       0      0     64         22         0        99   228              1       0     0     0     0             0       0     1       2       417      1,577
        5:00 PM       0      0     64         12         0        105  232              0       0     0     0     0             0       2     0       5       420      1,630
        5:15 PM       0      0     63         21         0        95   234              1       0     0     0     0             0       0     1       2       417      1,658
        5:30 PM       0      0     58         18         0        90   252              1       0     0     0     0             0       0     1       4       424      1,678
        5:45 PM       0      0     84         21         0        82   250              0       0     0     0     0             0       0     1       2       440      1,701
      Count Total     0      0    543         138        0        789 1,773             5       0     0     0     1             0       3     7      19      3,278       0
              All     0      0    269         72         0        372  968              2       0     0     0     0             0       2     3      13      1,701       0
      Peak
              HV      0      0     3           2         0         2    8               0       0     0     0     0             0       0     0       0        15        0
      Hour
             HV%      -      -    1%          3%         -        1%   1%              0%       -     -     -     -             -      0%    0%      0%       1%         0
     Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

        Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                              Bicycles                                 Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
          Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                  Total   EB               WB      NB       SB      Total       East      West      North    South        Total
        4:00 PM       2       6       0       0                   8       0                2       0        0       2           0          0         5         0          5
        4:15 PM       0       9       0       0                   9       0                2       0        1       3           0          0         14        0          14
        4:30 PM       0       6       0       0                   6       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         8         0          8
        4:45 PM       0       4       0       1                   5       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         8         0          8
       5:00 PM        1       4       0       0                   5       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         5         0          5
       5:15 PM        0       4       0       0                   4       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         2         0          2
       5:30 PM        2       2       0       0                   4       0                3       0        0       3           0          0         0         0          0
       5:45 PM        2       0       0       0                   2       0                0       0        0       0           0          0         7         0          7
      Count Total     7       35      0       1                   43      0                7       0        1       8           0          0         49        0          49
      Peak Hour       5       10      0       0                   15      0                3       0        0       3           0          0         14        0          14




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                        deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                               Donohoe St                   Donohoe St                  US 101 NB Ramp                  Driveway
        Interval                                                                                                                             15-min    Rolling
                               Eastbound                    Westbound                      Northbound                   Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                               Total   One Hour
                      UT       LT    TH     RT      UT      LT    TH       RT      UT       LT    TH     RT     UT       LT    TH    RT
         4:00 PM       0        0       1       1   0        5        1        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     8         0
         4:15 PM       0        0       0       0   0        6        3        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     9         0
         4:30 PM       0        0       0       0   0        3        3        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     6         0
         4:45 PM       0        0       0       0   0        1        3        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       1     5         28
        5:00 PM        0        0       1       0   0        1        3        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     5         25
        5:15 PM        0        0       0       0   0        1        3        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     4         20
        5:30 PM        0        0       1       1   0        0        2        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     4         18
        5:45 PM        0        0       1       1   0        0        0        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     2         15
      Count Total      0        0       4       3   0        17       18       0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       1     43        0
       Peak Hour       0        0       3       2   0        2        8        0   0        0       0       0   0        0       0       0     15        0


     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                               Donohoe St                   Donohoe St                  US 101 NB Ramp                  Driveway
        Interval                                                                                                                             15-min    Rolling
                           Eastbound                     Westbound                     Northbound                   Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                               Total   One Hour
                        LT    TH     RT               LT    TH     RT               LT     TH     RT             LT     TH     RT
         4:00 PM           0        0       0           0         2        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         2         0
         4:15 PM           0        0       0           0         2        0           0        0       0           0        0       1         3         0
         4:30 PM           0        0       0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         0
         4:45 PM           0        0       0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         5
        5:00 PM            0        0       0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         3
        5:15 PM            0        0       0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         0
        5:30 PM            0        0       0           0         3        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         3         3
        5:45 PM            0        0       0           0         0        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         0         3
      Count Total          0        0       0           0         7        0           0        0       0           0        0       1         8         0
       Peak Hour           0        0       0           0         3        0           0        0       0           0        0       0         3         0
     Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                        deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




                                                                       865


                                                                                     678
                  HV %:       PHF
            EB    0.4%        0.81
                                     N
           WB     2.1%        0.95




                                          University Ave
            NB    2.3%        0.96




                                                           4
                                                                                                                                 Date:            01/13/2015




                                                                              795
            SB    4.0%        0.91




                                                                                       17
                                                                53
                                                                                                                       Count Period:      7:00 AM      to   9:00 AM




                                                                                            0
                                                                      0
           NEB    1.5%        0.94
                                                                                                                         Peak Hour:       7:45 AM      to   8:45 AM
          TOTAL   2.2%        0.98



                                                                              37


                                                                                                                                         Donohoe St
                                                                                                                                                  1
                               0
                               0                                Donohoe St                                                                  368
    688                                                                                                                                                        1,407
                              96
                                                               University Ave                                                               519
                                     22




                                                                                                                             0
                                                                     Peak Hour                                                              0
                             466                                                                                                                                497
    562
                                                                     TEV:           4,097                                                   520
                               0
                                                                     PHF:            0.98                                                   0
                         0
                     Donohoe St


                                                                              0




                                                                                                      University Ave
                                                                                            384
                                                                                      310
                                                                0

                                                                     0

                                                                              116




                                                                                                  5
                                                                      2,234


                                                                                     810




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                   deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
       www.idaxdata.com




Six-Hour Count Summaries
                            Donohoe St                               Donohoe St                              University Ave                      University Ave                 Northeastbound Approach                   Rolling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15-min
Interval Start               Eastbound                                Westbound                               Northbound                          Southbound                          Northeastbound                       One
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                 UT     LT       TH      RT      HR     UT       LT       BL        TH       RT      UT   HL      LT       TH    RT    UT     LT      TH       BR      RT    UT    HL       BL      BR     HR              Hour
   7:00 AM        0      3       22      70       0      0       62        0       101        62      0    0       20      38     51    0     13      262       0       29    0     0        0       0      74     807      0
   7:15 AM        0      4       21      102      0      0       101       0       120        72      0    0       13      51     72    0     10      260       0       19    0     0        0       0      79     924      0
   7:30 AM        0      0       12      131      0      0       124       0       109        83      1    0       27     103     74    0      4      238       0       10    0     0        0       0      88    1,004     0
   7:45 AM        0      0        8      116      0      0       141       0       127        76      0    0       27     100     84    0      6      216       0       15    0     0        0       0     121    1,037   3,772
   8:00 AM        0      0       20      118      0      0       141       0       128        81      0    0       41      80     85    0      2      215       0       17    0     0        0       0     121    1,049   4,014
   8:15 AM        0      0       29      97       0      0       125       0       128       117      0    0       24      76    101    0      2      162       0       7     0     0        0       0      98     966    4,056
   8:30 AM        0      0       39      135      0      0       113       0       136        94      0    0       24      54    114    0      7      202       0       14    0     0        0       0     113    1,045   4,097
   8:45 AM        0      1       30      105      0      0       99        0       105       113      0    0       28      53     76    0      8      231       0       11    0     0        0       0      91     951    4,011
 Count Total      0      8      181      874      0      0       906       0       954       698      1    0      204     555    657    0     52     1,786      0      122    0     0        0       0     785    7,783     0
 Peak     All     0      0       96      466      0      0       520       0       519       368      0    0      116     310    384    0     17      795       0       53    0     0        0       0     453    4,097     0
          HV      0      0        0       2       0      0        3        0        11        15      0    0       2        8     9     0      1       32       0       2     0     0        0       0      7      92       0
 Hour
         HV% -           -       0%      0%       -      -       1%        -        2%       4%       -    -      2%       3%    2%     -     6%      4%        -      4%     -     -        -       -     2%      2%       0
Note: Six-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

  Interval                               Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                            Bicycles                                                   Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
    Start           EB         WB          NB         SB            NEB          Total          EB        WB        NB          SB      NEB          Total          East     West       North       South   Southwest     Total
   7:00 AM           3          9          10          9             0            31             0         0         0            0      0            0              0         3          3           0         6         12
   7:15 AM           4          8           5          9             2            28             0         0         1            0      0            1              0         3          3           0         2          8
   7:30 AM           3          9           6          8             1            27             0         0         2            0      0            2              0         5          5           0         7         17
   7:45 AM           2         11           2          8             2            25             0         0         3            0      0            3              0         4          3           0         6         13
   8:00 AM           0          5           7         10             2            24             0         0         1            1      0            2              0         6         12           0        11         29
   8:15 AM           0          6           7          8             0            21             0         1         1            1      0            3              0         6         16           0         7         29
   8:30 AM           0          7           3          9             3            22             0         0         0            2      0            2              0         6          6           0        11         23
   8:45 AM           2          3           6         16             1            28             0         1         2            3      0            6              0         3          6           0         5         14
 Count Total        14         58          46         77             11          206             0         2        10            7      0            19             0        36         54           0        55         145
  Peak Hr            2         29          19         35             7            92             0         1         5            4      0            10             0        22         37           0        35         94




       Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                         deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
      www.idaxdata.com




Six-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                         Donohoe St                        Donohoe St                     University Ave                  University Ave             Northeastbound Approach               Rolling
                                                                                                                                                                                  15-min
Interval Start            Eastbound                        Westbound                       Northbound                      Southbound                      Northeastbound                   One
                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
               UT    LT       TH     RT     HR   UT   LT      BL        TH   RT   UT   HL      LT       TH   RT   UT   LT      TH       BR   RT   UT    HL       BL      BR  HR             Hour
    7:00 AM     0     0        0       3     0    0    3       0         4    2    0    0       0        3    7    0    0       7        0    2    0     0        0       0   0    31        0
    7:15 AM     0     0        0       4     0    0    0       0         5    3    0    0       2        1    2    0    0       9        0    0    0     0        0       0   2    28        0
    7:30 AM     0     0        1       2     0    0    1       0         2    6    0    0       1        4    1    0    0       8        0    0    0     0        0       0   1    27        0
    7:45 AM     0     0        0       2     0    0    1       0         4    6    0    0       0        1    1    0    1       6        0    1    0     0        0       0   2    25       111
    8:00 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    1       0         2    2    0    0       2        3    2    0    0       9        0    1    0     0        0       0   2    24       104
    8:15 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    1       0         2    3    0    0       0        3    4    0    0       8        0    0    0     0        0       0   0    21        97
    8:30 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         3    4    0    0       0        1    2    0    0       9        0    0    0     0        0       0   3    22        92
    8:45 AM     0     0        2       0     0    0    0       0         0    3    0    0       1        2    3    0    0      16        0    0    0     0        0       0   1    28        95
 Count Total    0     0        3      11     0    0    7       0        22   29    0    0       6       18   22    0    1      72        0    4    0     0        0       0  11    206       0
 Peak Hour      0     0        0       2     0    0    3       0        11   15    0    0       2        8    9    0    1      32        0    2    0     0        0       0   7    92        0

Six-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                         Donohoe St                        Donohoe St                     University Ave                  University Ave             Northeastbound Approach               Rolling
                                                                                                                                                                                  15-min
Interval Start            Eastbound                        Westbound                       Northbound                      Southbound                      Northeastbound                   One
                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
               UT    LT       TH      RT    HR   UT   LT      BL        TH   RT   UT   HL      LT       TH   RT   UT   LT      TH       BR   RT   UT    HL       BL      BR  HR             Hour
    7:00 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    0    0    0       0        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      0       0
    7:15 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    1    0    0       0        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      1       0
    7:30 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        1    1    0    0       0        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      2       0
    7:45 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        1    2    0    0       0        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      3       6
    8:00 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    1    0    0       1        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      2       8
    8:15 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    1       0         0    0    0    0       0        1    0    0    0       1        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      3      10
    8:30 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    0    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      2      10
    8:45 AM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         1    0    0    0       0        2    0    0    0       3        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      6      13
 Count Total    0     0        0       0     0    0    1       0         1    0    0    0       0        5    5    0    0       7        0    0    0     0        0       0   0     19       0
 Peak Hour      0     0        0       0     0    0    1       0         0    0    0    0       0        2    3    0    0       4        0    0    0     0        0       0   0     10       0




      Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                            deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




                                                                        744


                                                                                       1,238
                  HV %:       PHF
            EB    0.4%        0.89
                                     N
            WB    1.6%        0.96




                                          University Ave
            NB    2.7%        0.93




                                                           5
                                                                                                                                    Date:            01/13/2015




                                                                               554
                                                                143
            SB    2.8%        0.83




                                                                                         47
                                                                                                                          Count Period:      4:00 PM      to   6:00 PM




                                                                                               0
                                                                       0
            NEB   0.4%        0.91
                                                                                                                            Peak Hour:       4:00 PM      to   5:00 PM
          TOTAL   2.1%        0.94



                                                                               57


                                                                                                                                            Donohoe St
                                                                                                                                                     0
                               0
                             22                                 Donohoe St                                                                     665
    1,213                                                                                                                                                         1,595
                             108
                                                               University Ave                                                                  660
                                     30




                                                                                                                                0
                                                                      Peak Hour                                                                0
                             150                                                                                                                                   842
    280
                                                                      TEV:           4,504                                                     270
                               0
                                                                      PHF:            0.94                                                     0
                         0
                     Donohoe St


                                                                               0




                                                                                                         University Ave
                                                                                               687
                                                                                        551
                                                                0

                                                                      0

                                                                               410




                                                                                                     4
                                                                       1,211


                                                                                      1,648




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                      deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
       www.idaxdata.com




Six-Hour Count Summaries
                            Donohoe St                               Donohoe St                              University Ave                       University Ave                 Northeastbound Approach                   Rolling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15-min
Interval Start               Eastbound                                Westbound                               Northbound                           Southbound                          Northeastbound                       One
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                 UT     LT       TH      RT      HR     UT       LT       BL        TH       RT      UT   HL      LT       TH    RT     UT     LT      TH       BR      RT    UT    HL       BL      BR     HR              Hour
   4:00 PM        0      9       24      46       0      0       66        0       166       172      0    0       84     141    180     0      9      127       0       26    0     0        0       0      65    1,115     0
   4:15 PM        0      6       31      36       0      0       73        0       157       185      0    0       95     120    147     0     14      115       0       44    0     0        0       0      51    1,074     0
   4:30 PM        0      5       28      36       0      0       71        0       169       153      0    0      124     135    183     0     10      175       0       38    0     0        0       0      65    1,192     0
   4:45 PM        0      2       25      32       0      0       60        0       168       155      0    0      107     155    177     0     14      137       0       35    0     0        0       0      56    1,123   4,504
   5:00 PM        0      2       18      50       0      0       91        0       170       106      0    0      120     110    189     0     11      138       0       37    0     0        0       0      73    1,115   4,504
   5:15 PM        0      2       21      44       0      0       65        0       162        84      0    0      123      88    174     0     13      125       0       35    0     0        0       0      62     998    4,428
   5:30 PM        0      2       22      40       0      0       79        0       163       132      0    0      134     128    163     0     17      140       0       39    0     0        0       0      76    1,135   4,371
   5:45 PM        0      8       23      45       0      0       58        0       173       114      0    0      119      92    158     0     13      149       0       26    0     0        0       0      59    1,037   4,285
 Count Total      0     36      192      329      0      0       563       0      1,328 1,101         0    0      906     969   1,371    0     101    1,106      0      280    0     0        0       0     507    8,789     0
 Peak     All     0     22      108      150      0      0       270       0       660       665      0    0      410     551    687     0     47      554       0      143    0     0        0       0     237    4,504     0
          HV      0      1        0       0       0      0        3        0        13        9       0    0       6       14     25     0      1       13       0       7     0     0        0       0      1      93       0
 Hour
         HV% -          5%       0%      0%       -      -       1%        -        2%       1%       -    -      1%       3%    4%      -     2%      2%        -      5%     -     -        -       -     0%      2%       0
Note: Six-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

  Interval                               Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                            Bicycles                                                    Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
    Start           EB         WB          NB         SB            NEB          Total          EB        WB        NB          SB       NEB          Total          East     West       North       South   Southwest     Total
   4:00 PM           0         10          11          2             1            24             0         0         0            1       0            1              0        10         22           0        11         43
   4:15 PM           1          6           6         10             0            23             0         0         3            2       0            5              0         8         13           0         9         30
   4:30 PM           0          6          15          7             0            28             0         0         1            0       0            1              0         5         10           0        11         26
   4:45 PM           0          3          13          2             0            18             0         0         0            2       0            2              0         7         12           0        10         29
   5:00 PM           1          6           5          2             1            15             0         2         0            1       0            3              0         9         10           0        10         29
   5:15 PM           0          1           3          4             0            8              0         0         1            1       0            2              0         1          8           0         1         10
   5:30 PM           1          5           5          2             1            14             0         0         1            2       0            3              0         4          4           0         4         12
   5:45 PM           1          2           3          3             0            9              0         1         0            1       0            2              0         5          9           0        11         25
 Count Total         4         39          61         32             3           139             0         3         6           10       0            19             0        49         88           0        67         204
  Peak Hr            1         25          45         21             1            93             0         0         4            5       0            9              0        30         57           0        41         128




       Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                          deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
      www.idaxdata.com




Six-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                         Donohoe St                        Donohoe St                     University Ave                  University Ave             Northeastbound Approach               Rolling
                                                                                                                                                                                  15-min
Interval Start            Eastbound                        Westbound                       Northbound                      Southbound                      Northeastbound                   One
                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
               UT    LT       TH     RT     HR   UT   LT      BL        TH   RT   UT   HL      LT       TH   RT   UT   LT      TH       BR   RT   UT    HL       BL      BR  HR             Hour
    4:00 PM     0     0        0      0      0    0    1       0         5    4    0    0       1        5    5    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   1    24        0
    4:15 PM     0     1        0      0      0    0    0       0         6    0    0    0       1        2    3    0    1       5        0    4    0     0        0       0   0    23        0
    4:30 PM     0     0        0      0      0    0    1       0         0    5    0    0       2        4    9    0    0       4        0    3    0     0        0       0   0    28        0
    4:45 PM     0     0        0      0      0    0    1       0         2    0    0    0       2        3    8    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   0    18       93
    5:00 PM     0     0        1      0      0    0    4       0         1    1    0    0       2        0    3    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   1    15       84
    5:15 PM     0     0        0      0      0    0    0       0         1    0    0    0       1        0    2    0    1       3        0    0    0     0        0       0   0     8       69
    5:30 PM     0     0        0      1      0    0    4       0         0    1    0    0       1        2    2    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   1    14       55
    5:45 PM     0     0        0      1      0    0    1       0         0    1    0    0       0        3    0    0    0       3        0    0    0     0        0       0   0     9       46
 Count Total    0     1        1      2      0    0   12       0        15   12    0    0      10       19   32    0    2      23        0    7    0     0        0       0   3    139       0
 Peak Hour      0     1        0      0      0    0    3       0        13    9    0    0       6       14   25    0    1      13        0    7    0     0        0       0   1    93        0

Six-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                         Donohoe St                        Donohoe St                     University Ave                  University Ave             Northeastbound Approach               Rolling
                                                                                                                                                                                  15-min
Interval Start            Eastbound                        Westbound                       Northbound                      Southbound                      Northeastbound                   One
                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
               UT    LT       TH      RT    HR   UT   LT      BL        TH   RT   UT   HL      LT       TH   RT   UT   LT      TH       BR   RT   UT    HL       BL      BR  HR             Hour
    4:00 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    0    0    0       1        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      1       0
    4:15 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        2    1    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      5       0
    4:30 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    1    0    0       0        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      1       0
    4:45 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    0    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      2       9
    5:00 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    2       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    0    0    0       1        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      3      11
    5:15 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    1    0    0       1        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      2       8
    5:30 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        1    0    0    0       2        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      3      10
    5:45 PM     0     0        0       0     0    0    1       0         0    0    0    0       0        0    0    0    0       1        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      2      10
 Count Total    0     0        0       0     0    0    3       0         0    0    0    0       0        3    3    0    0      10        0    0    0     0        0       0   0     19       0
 Peak Hour      0     0        0       0     0    0    0       0         0    0    0    0       0        2    2    0    0       5        0    0    0     0        0       0   0      9       0




      Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                            deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




                                                    University Ave
                                                    Woodland Ave
                                                                                                                                                      Date: 01/13/2015
                        N                                  Peak Hour                                                                          Count Period: 7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                Peak Hour: 7:45 AM to 8:45 AM


                                                           1,793



                                                                              1,272
                                   University Ave


                                                     627

                                                              960

                                                                        201




                                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                      5




                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                 Woodland Ave

                              0                                                                                  313
                                                                                                                                                                            0
             791                                                                                                                442                                                           0
                                                           TEV: 3,370                                            106                                   1
                            376




                                                                                                                                                                   37
                                                                                                                                                       3                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                           PHF: 0.96                                             23
             486            83
                                                                                                                                297                    1                                      0
                             27                                                                                  0                                                          40

                    Woodland Ave
                                                                                                                                      HV %:     PHF
                                                                                                University Ave
                                                                   58



                                                                                      13
                                                                          578
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                              EB      2.5%      0.86
                                                                                                                             WB       2.3%      0.81
                                                                                                                              NB      2.0%      0.85
                                                           1,010




                                                                                                                              SB      2.2%      0.93
                                                                              649




                                                                                                                            TOTAL     2.2%      0.96
     Two-Hour Count Summaries
                         Woodland Ave                                  Woodland Ave                                           University Ave                  University Ave
        Interval                                                                                                                                                                         15-min    Rolling
                          Eastbound                                     Westbound                                              Northbound                      Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                                                           Total   One Hour
                      UT   LT   TH                      RT          UT   LT   TH                                 RT        UT   LT     TH        RT        UT   LT     TH        RT
        7:00 AM        0   63    7                       6           0    4   12                                 66         0    8     78         5         0   50     198       71       568        0
        7:15 AM        0   63    16                     10           0   11   21                                 90         0   10     118        2         2   47     230       90       710        0
        7:30 AM        0   84    13                     13           0    1    5                                 57         0    7     155        5         1   46     265       87       739        0
        7:45 AM        0  112    16                      6           0    2   21                                 81         0    7     144        5         0   49     280       153      876      2,893
        8:00 AM        0   80    19                      6           0    8   31                                 98         0   19     144        3         2   44     212       157      823      3,148
        8:15 AM        0   81    18                      7           0    6   35                                 72         0   14     175        3         2   47     222       179      861      3,299
        8:30 AM        0  103    30                      8           0    7   19                                 62         0   18     115        2         1   61     246       138      810      3,370
        8:45 AM        0   74    18                     15           0    6   17                                 47         0   20     143        5         1   65     226       102      739      3,233
      Count Total      0  660   137                     71           0   45   161                                573        0  103 1,072         30         9  409 1,879         977     6,126       0
              All      0  376    83                     27           0   23   106                                313        0   58     578       13         5  201     960       627     3,370       0
      Peak
              HV       0    7    1                       4           0    3    4                                  3         0    3      8         2         0    7     19        13        74        0
      Hour
             HV%       -  2%    1%                     15%           -  13% 4%                                   1%         -   5%     1%       15%        0%   3%     2%        2%       2%         0
     Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

        Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                          Bicycles                                Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
          Start       EB     WB      NB      SB                                 Total      EB                         WB      NB       SB      Total       East     West      North    South         Total
        7:00 AM        7      2       4       8                                  21         1                          0       0        4       5           0         6         0        10          16
        7:15 AM        3      6       1       8                                  18         0                          0       1        0       1           0        11         0        10          21
        7:30 AM        1      2       2       9                                  14         1                          0       3        1       5           2         5         0         7          14
       7:45 AM         3      0       4       13                                 20         3                          0       0        3       6           0        17         0        17          34
       8:00 AM         3      6       3       7                                  19         0                          1       0        2       3           0         9         0        13          22
       8:15 AM         4      2       4       11                                 21         1                          1       1        5       8           1         6         0         7          14
       8:30 AM         2      2       2       8                                  14         1                          0       0        5       6           0         5         0         3           8
        8:45 AM        6      0       4       9                                  19         0                          1       1        4       6           0         6         0         0           6
      Count Total     29      20     24       73                                146         7                          3       6       24       40          3        65         0        67          135
      Peak Hour       12      10     13       39                                 74         5                          2       1       15       23          1        37         0        40          78




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                    deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                               Woodland Ave                   Woodland Ave                   University Ave                   University Ave
        Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
                                Eastbound                      Westbound                      Northbound                       Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                         Total   One Hour
                      UT        LT    TH      RT      UT       LT    TH      RT      UT        LT    TH       RT      UT        LT    TH       RT
         7:00 AM       0         3        2       2   0         0       0        2   0          1       2         1   0          1        4        3     21        0
         7:15 AM       0         0        2       1   0         1       2        3   0          0       1         0   0          2        3        3     18        0
         7:30 AM       0         1        0       0   0         0       0        2   0          0       2         0   0          1        6        2     14        0
        7:45 AM        0         2        0       1   0         0       0        0   0          0       3         1   0          4        5        4     20        73
        8:00 AM        0         1        1       1   0         1       2        3   0          2       1         0   0          0        2        5     19        71
        8:15 AM        0         4        0       0   0         0       2        0   0          0       3         1   0          3        7        1     21        74
        8:30 AM        0         0        0       2   0         2       0        0   0          1       1         0   0          0        5        3     14        74
         8:45 AM       0         4        1       1   0         0       0        0   0          0       4         0   0          2        5        2     19        73
      Count Total      0         15       6       8   0         4       6    10      0          4       17        3   0         13        37   23       146        0
       Peak Hour       0         7        1       4   0         3       4        3   0          3       8         2   0          7        19   13        74        0


     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                               Woodland Ave                   Woodland Ave                   University Ave                   University Ave
        Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
                           Eastbound                      Westbound                      Northbound                       Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                         Total   One Hour
                        LT    TH     RT                LT    TH     RT                LT     TH     RT                 LT     TH     RT
         7:00 AM           0          1       0           0         0        0           0          0         0           0          4         0         5         0
         7:15 AM           0          0       0           0         0        0           0          1         0           0          0         0         1         0
         7:30 AM           0          0       1           0         0        0           1          2         0           0          1         0         5         0
        7:45 AM            1          2       0           0         0        0           0          0         0           0          3         0         6         17
        8:00 AM            0          0       0           0         1        0           0          0         0           0          2         0         3         15
        8:15 AM            0          1       0           0         1        0           0          1         0           0          3         2         8         22
        8:30 AM            0          0       1           0         0        0           0          0         0           0          3         2         6         23
         8:45 AM           0          0       0           0         0        1           0          1         0           0          4         0         6         23
      Count Total          1          4       2           0         2        1           1          5         0           0          20        4         40        0
       Peak Hour           1          3       1           0         2        0           0          1         0           0          11        4         23        0
     Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                  deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




                                                    University Ave
                                                    Woodland Ave
                                                                                                                                                        Date: 01/13/2015
                        N                                  Peak Hour                                                                            Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour: 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM


                                                           1,070



                                                                              1,619
                                   University Ave


                                                     277

                                                             575

                                                                        206

                                                                                      12




                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                 Woodland Ave

                              0                                                                                  360
                                                                                                                                                                              0
             377                                                                                                                  446                                                           1
                                                           TEV: 2,967                                            70                                      1
                            465




                                                                                                                                                                    36
                                                                                                                                                         4                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                           PHF: 0.98                                             16
             630            114
                                                                                                                                  329                    0                                      0
                             51                                                                                  0                                                            51

                    Woodland Ave
                                                                                                                                        HV %:     PHF
                                                                                                University Ave
                                                                   30



                                                                                       9
                                                                          782
                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                             EB         1.6%      0.96
                                                                                                                             WB         2.0%      0.90
                                                                                                                             NB         2.1%      0.96
                                                                                                                             SB         1.2%      0.89
                                                           642



                                                                              821




                                                                                                                            TOTAL       1.7%      0.98
     Two-Hour Count Summaries
                         Woodland Ave                                  Woodland Ave                                           University Ave                    University Ave
        Interval                                                                                                                                                                           15-min     Rolling
                          Eastbound                                     Westbound                                              Northbound                        Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                                                             Total    One Hour
                      UT   LT   TH    RT                            UT   LT   TH    RT                                     UT   LT     TH    RT              UT   LT     TH    RT
        4:00 PM        0  114    30   10                             0    5   22    77                                      0    8     192    1               0   56     163   81           759         0
        4:15 PM        0  106    30   18                             0    5   21    98                                      0    9     203    1               3   48     125   68           735         0
        4:30 PM        0  122    29   13                             0    4   11    84                                      0    5     196    3               6   56     161   69           759         0
        4:45 PM        0  123    25   10                             0    2   16    101                                     0    8     191    4               3   46     126   59           714       2,967
        5:00 PM        0  114    33   19                             0    5   12    80                                      0    8     197    1               4   46     155   78           752       2,960
        5:15 PM        0   95    29   14                             0    6   27    92                                      0    9     151    1               0   44     116   99           683       2,908
        5:30 PM        0   86    13   16                             0    5   23    93                                      0   10     167    4               2   35     143   96           693       2,842
        5:45 PM        0   73    24   16                             0    8   25    80                                      0    8     127    4               2   39     142   66           614       2,742
      Count Total      0  833   213   116                            0   40   157   705                                     0   65 1,424 19                  20  370 1,131 616             5,709        0
              All      0  465   114   51                             0   16   70    360                                     0   30     782    9              12  206     575   277         2,967        0
      Peak
              HV       0    7    2     1                             0    1    1     7                                      0    3     13     1               0    3      5     5            49         0
      Hour
             HV%       -  2%    2%    2%                             -  6%    1%    2%                                      -  10% 2% 11%                    0%   1%     1%    2%           2%          0
     Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

        Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                          Bicycles                                  Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
          Start       EB     WB      NB      SB                                 Total      EB                         WB      NB         SB      Total       East     West      North    South          Total
       4:00 PM        4       2                      6             7             19        1                           1      1          3        6            2         8             0        11      21
       4:15 PM        4       2                      4             3             13        1                           0      0          1        2            2         7             0        18      27
       4:30 PM        1       4                      3             2             10        2                           0      1          1        4            0         14            0        17      31
       4:45 PM        1       1                      4             1             7         1                           0      0          0        1            1         7             0        5       13
        5:00 PM       4       1                      4             5             14        3                           0      1          0        4            0         22            0        15      37
        5:15 PM       2       1                      2             2             7         0                           0      1          0        1            0         6             0        10      16
        5:30 PM       1       0                      8             4             13        2                           0      0          4        6            0         9             0        6       15
        5:45 PM       1       2                      4             2             9         0                           0      0          1        1            0         7             0        11      18
      Count Total     18      13                     35            26            92        10                          1      4          10       25           5         80            0        93      178
      Peak Hour       10      9                      17            13            49        5                           1      2          5        13           5         36            0        51      92




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                      deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com




     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
                               Woodland Ave                   Woodland Ave                   University Ave                   University Ave
        Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
                                Eastbound                      Westbound                      Northbound                       Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                         Total   One Hour
                      UT        LT    TH      RT      UT       LT    TH      RT      UT        LT    TH       RT      UT        LT    TH       RT
        4:00 PM        0         3        1       0   0         0       0        2   0          1       5         0   0          3       2         2     19        0
        4:15 PM        0         2        1       1   0         0       0        2   0          1       3         0   0          0       2         1     13        0
        4:30 PM        0         1        0       0   0         1       0        3   0          0       2         1   0          0       0         2     10        0
        4:45 PM        0         1        0       0   0         0       1        0   0          1       3         0   0          0       1         0     7         49
         5:00 PM       0         2        0       2   0         1       0        0   0          1       2         1   0          0       4         1     14        44
         5:15 PM       0         1        1       0   0         0       0        1   0          0       2         0   0          0       1         1     7         38
         5:30 PM       0         1        0       0   0         0       0        0   0          0       7         1   0          0       4         0     13        41
         5:45 PM       0         1        0       0   0         1       0        1   0          0       4         0   0          1       1         0     9         43
      Count Total      0         12       3       3   0         3       1        9   0          4       28        3   0          4       15        7     92        0
       Peak Hour       0         7        2       1   0         1       1        7   0          3       13        1   0          3       5         5     49        0


     Two-Hour Count Summaries - Bikes
                               Woodland Ave                   Woodland Ave                   University Ave                   University Ave
        Interval                                                                                                                                       15-min    Rolling
                           Eastbound                      Westbound                      Northbound                       Southbound
          Start                                                                                                                                         Total   One Hour
                        LT    TH     RT                LT    TH     RT                LT     TH     RT                 LT     TH     RT
        4:00 PM            0          1       0           0         0        1           1          0         0           0          3         0         6         0
        4:15 PM            1          0       0           0         0        0           0          0         0           0          1         0         2         0
        4:30 PM            0          2       0           0         0        0           0          1         0           0          1         0         4         0
        4:45 PM            0          1       0           0         0        0           0          0         0           0          0         0         1         13
         5:00 PM           0          0       3           0         0        0           1          0         0           0          0         0         4         11
         5:15 PM           0          0       0           0         0        0           1          0         0           0          0         0         1         10
         5:30 PM           0          1       1           0         0        0           0          0         0           0          4         0         6         12
         5:45 PM           0          0       0           0         0        0           0          0         0           0          0         1         1         12
      Count Total          1          5       4           0         0        1           3          1         0           0          9         1         25        0
       Peak Hour           1          4       0           0         0        1           1          1         0           0          5         0         13        0
     Note: U-Turn volumes for bikes are included in Left-Turn, if any.




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                  deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                                             4/23/2015

1: US 101 NB On-Ramp & Donohoe Street Performance by movement
Movement              EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR      SBT    SBR       All
Denied Del/Veh (s)      1.0      1.0     1.2      0.2     0.0      0.1    0.1     0.9
Total Del/Veh (s)      36.5    34.9    75.4       9.8     9.9    344.5   12.0    42.3
Vehicles Entered      1095      766     843      492        3        1      3    3203
Vehicles Exited       1088      758     841      492        3        1      3    3186
Hourly Exit Rate       544      379     421      246        2        1      2    1593
Input Volume           552      387     432      256        1        1      1    1632
% of Volume             98       98      97       96      150      50     150      98
Denied Entry Before       0        0       0        0       0        0      0       0
Denied Entry After        0        0       0        0       0        0      0       0

2: University Avenue & Donohoe Street Performance by movement
Movement               EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR      NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR        All
Denied Del/Veh (s)      1.3      1.1      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0      0.2
Total Del/Veh (s)     147.6    47.4    155.3    141.0    23.4     97.6   23.3     6.2    203.6   178.0     166.6    107.3
Vehicles Entered       211      899      985      996     701     217    598      746      33    1943        98     7427
Vehicles Exited        206      893      986    1000      704     217    595      745      33    1945        99     7423
Hourly Exit Rate       103      447      493      500     352     109    298      373      17     973        50      3712
Input Volume           105      459      512      512     362     115    306      379      17     985        52     3804
% of Volume             98       97       96       98      97      95     97       98      96      99        95        98
Denied Entry Before       0        0        0        0       0       0      0        0       0       0         0        0
Denied Entry After        0        0        0        0       0       0      0        0       0       0         0        0

3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps Performance by movement
Movement               WBL     WBT     WBR      NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      All
Denied Del/Veh (s)       0.2    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)     106.4    58.8    24.4     38.6     12.0    92.7    34.4    48.5
Vehicles Entered        458       3     501     1901      868    1734    2964    8429
Vehicles Exited         451       3     502     1900      869    1721    2951    8397
Hourly Exit Rate        226       2     251      950      435     861    1476    4199
Input Volume            258       1     278      947      438     894    1509    4326
% of Volume              87     171      90      100       99      96      98      97
Denied Entry Before        0      0        0       0         0       0       0      0
Denied Entry After         0      0        0       0         0       0       0      0




AM Peak Hour                                                                                             SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                                   Page 1
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                                           4/23/2015

4: Woodland Avenue & University Avenue Performance by movement
Movement              EBL    EBT       EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR     SBU       SBL       SBT
Denied Del/Veh (s)     0.0    0.0       0.0      0.3       0.3     0.3    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)     49.6   49.2      41.0    107.4    104.9    73.3    77.6   26.6    26.1    72.3      68.7     47.8
Vehicles Entered      738    161         53      42       206     625    110    1399      28       9      374      1820
Vehicles Exited       738    161         53      41       206     624    110    1397      28       8      371      1809
Hourly Exit Rate      369     81         27      21       103     312     55     699      14       4       186      905
Input Volume          371     82         26      22       104     308     57     700      13       5       198      946
% of Volume           100     98        100      92        99     101     97     100     107     80         94       96
Denied Entry Before      0      0         0        0         0       0      0       0       0      0          0        0
Denied Entry After       0      0         0        0         0       0      0       0       0      0          0        0

4: Woodland Avenue & University Avenue Performance by movement
Movement              SBR       All
Denied Del/Veh (s)     0.0     0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)      7.6    42.7
Vehicles Entered      1199   6764
Vehicles Exited       1198   6744
Hourly Exit Rate       599   3372
Input Volume           618   3452
% of Volume             97     98
Denied Entry Before      0       0
Denied Entry After       0       0

10: US 101 SB Ramps Performance by movement
Movement              NET    NER       SWT        All
Denied Del/Veh (s)     0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)      1.9    2.9     136.7     40.8
Vehicles Entered         2   2590     1017     3609
Vehicles Exited          2   2589       961    3552
Hourly Exit Rate         1   1295       481    1776
Input Volume             1   1333       536    1870
% of Volume           100      97        90      95
Denied Entry Before      0      0          0       0
Denied Entry After       0      0          0       0




AM Peak Hour                                                                                           SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                                 Page 2
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                            4/23/2015

Total Network Performance

Denied Del/Veh (s)                1.0
Total Del/Veh (s)               286.5
Vehicles Entered               12443
Vehicles Exited                12097
Hourly Exit Rate                6049
Input Volume                   40218
% of Volume                       15
Denied Entry Before                 0
Denied Entry After                  1




AM Peak Hour                            SimTraffic Report
                                                  Page 5
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                               4/23/2015

Intersection: 1: US 101 NB On-Ramp & Donohoe Street
Movement                  EB   WB    WB     SB
Directions Served        LTR     L    TR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)      1529   426   384    34
Average Queue (ft)       305   305   215     3
95th Queue (ft)         1105   421   473    17
Link Distance (ft)      2908   331   331   153
Upstream Blk Time (%)           20    12
Queuing Penalty (veh)           67    42
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: University Avenue & Donohoe Street
Movement                 EB     EB   WB    WB    WB     WB      B23    B23     B5     B5        NB       NB
Directions Served         T      R     L    LT    TR      R       T      T      T      T         L        L
Maximum Queue (ft)      362    275   215   731   723    690    1518   1520   1774   1773        88      216
Average Queue (ft)      221    234   208   670   652    217    1128   1131    628    634        26       77
95th Queue (ft)         420    327   256   830   859    619    2009   2011   2065   2075        82      169
Link Distance (ft)      331                618   618    618    1409   1409   9410   9410        88       88
Upstream Blk Time (%)    12                 69    47      0      47     49                       1       16
Queuing Penalty (veh)    66                  0     0      0       0      0                       2       33
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          250   190
Storage Blk Time (%)     21     21    32    59
Queuing Penalty (veh)    96     20   161   151

Intersection: 2: University Avenue & Donohoe Street
Movement                 NB     NB    NB    SB     SB     SB
Directions Served         T      T     R     L      T     TR
Maximum Queue (ft)      229    232    88   260    994   1008
Average Queue (ft)       84     85    59    51    843    821
95th Queue (ft)         192    190   109   199   1214   1233
Link Distance (ft)       88     88                989    989
Upstream Blk Time (%)     8      5     2           16     13
Queuing Penalty (veh)    15      9     0           85     69
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                100   235
Storage Blk Time (%)            5      2     0    67
Queuing Penalty (veh)          18      3     0    12




AM Peak Hour                                                                               SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                     Page 6
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                            4/23/2015

Intersection: 3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps
Movement                WB    WB    WB     NB     NB     NB     NB    SB    SB     SB        SB
Directions Served         L    LR     R     T      T      R      R     L     L      T         T
Maximum Queue (ft)      223   227   211   379    379    320    177   275   325   1196      1156
Average Queue (ft)      120   147    89   272    303     80     75   262   309    737       590
95th Queue (ft)         243   241   176   396    395    184    125   316   372   1367      1200
Link Distance (ft)      183   183   183   346    346    346                      1034      1034
Upstream Blk Time (%)    25    26     1     2      4      0                        11         2
Queuing Penalty (veh)    44    46     2     9     19      2                       134        27
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                                          200   225   225
Storage Blk Time (%)                                                  23    39     7
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                173   293    63

Intersection: 4: Woodland Avenue & University Avenue
Movement                 EB    EB    EB    B20    B20    WB    WB     NB    NB    NB        B21      B22
Directions Served         L     L    TR      T      T     LT     R     L     T    TR          T        T
Maximum Queue (ft)      197   248   211     53    194    839   125   143   220   240        188      458
Average Queue (ft)      113   170    81      1     18    307   118    58   130   196         87       53
95th Queue (ft)         184   247   150     28     95    702   149   119   202   255        202      231
Link Distance (ft)      163   163   163   4548   4548   4712               146   146         88     2409
Upstream Blk Time (%)     2    16     1                                0     5    27         12
Queuing Penalty (veh)     0     0     0                                0    18   104         95
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                                          100   125
Storage Blk Time (%)                                     25     41     1    8
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                    76     52     3    4

Intersection: 4: Woodland Avenue & University Avenue
Movement                 SB    SB    SB    SB
Directions Served        UL     T     T     R
Maximum Queue (ft)      317   367   364   278
Average Queue (ft)      186   228   231   100
95th Queue (ft)         342   412   407   192
Link Distance (ft)            346   346   346
Upstream Blk Time (%)          12    11     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)          68    64     0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   250
Storage Blk Time (%)      3   25
Queuing Penalty (veh)    14   49




AM Peak Hour                                                                            SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                  Page 7
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                                           4/23/2015

1: US 101 NB On-Ramp & Donohoe St Performance by movement
Movement              EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     SBL     SBT    SBR        All
Denied Del/Veh (s)     0.3       0.3     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)      2.5       1.8     7.1    2.5     2.2    26.8    20.7     9.9     3.7
Vehicles Entered      546       147     737    1637        5      4       7     27    3110
Vehicles Exited       546       148     739    1639        5      4       7     27    3115
Hourly Exit Rate      273        74     370     820        3      2       4     14    1558
Input Volume          274        71     366     828        2      2       3     13    1560
% of Volume           100       104     101      99     125    100     117     103     100
Denied Entry Before      0         0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0
Denied Entry After       0         0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0

2: University Ave & Donohoe St Performance by movement
Movement              EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Denied Del/Veh (s)     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0       0.2
Total Del/Veh (s)     58.5     63.6    12.5    45.5     61.8    27.7   69.9   38.3    11.8     107.8     119.7    128.6
Vehicles Entered       41      209      299     525    1287    1301    807    1099    1342       96      1100       286
Vehicles Exited        41      208      299     525    1285    1302    804    1098    1342       98      1109       288
Hourly Exit Rate       21      104      150     263     643     651    402     549     671       49       555       144
Input Volume           21      107      148     266     650     656    404     543     677       47       546       141
% of Volume            96       98      101      99      99      99     100    101      99      105       102       102
Denied Entry Before      0        0        0       0       0       0      0       0       0        0         0         0
Denied Entry After       0        0        0       0       0       0      0       0       0        0         0         0

2: University Ave & Donohoe St Performance by movement
Movement                 All
Denied Del/Veh (s)      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)      54.1
Vehicles Entered      8392
Vehicles Exited       8399
Hourly Exit Rate      4200
Input Volume          4206
% of Volume            100
Denied Entry Before       0
Denied Entry After        0




PM Peak Hour                                                                                           SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                                 Page 1
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                                           4/23/2015

3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp Performance by movement
Movement              WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT       All
Denied Del/Veh (s)      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)     47.0     34.4     31.9     6.0    48.7      8.8    29.3
Vehicles Entered       700    1256     2647     685     982     1410    7680
Vehicles Exited        702    1257     2646     685     979     1401    7670
Hourly Exit Rate       351     629     1323     343     490      701    3835
Input Volume           352     629     1329     344     491      703    3849
% of Volume            100     100      100     100     100      100     100
Denied Entry Before       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
Denied Entry After        0       0        0       0       0        0       0

4: University Ave & Woodland Ave Performance by movement
Movement              EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR    SBU       SBL       SBT
Denied Del/Veh (s)     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.3      0.3     0.3    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)     80.5    61.0     48.0    155.7   143.3    131.4   69.8     47.7    45.9   55.4      52.6     25.1
Vehicles Entered      908     219       99       31      142     710     53      1692     18     23        404     1127
Vehicles Exited       908     218       99       32      143     709     53      1692     18     23       405      1127
Hourly Exit Rate      454     109       50       16       72     355     27       846       9    12        203      564
Input Volume          459     113       51       16       69     355     30       848       9    12        203      567
% of Volume            99      97       98       99      104     100     90       100     99     95        100       99
Denied Entry Before      0       0        0        0        0       0      0         0      0      0          0        0
Denied Entry After       0       0        0        0        0       0      0         0      0      0          0        0

4: University Ave & Woodland Ave Performance by movement
Movement              SBR        All
Denied Del/Veh (s)      0.0     0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)       6.4    59.0
Vehicles Entered       552    5978
Vehicles Exited        552    5979
Hourly Exit Rate       276    2990
Input Volume           273    3004
% of Volume            101     100
Denied Entry Before       0       0
Denied Entry After        0       0




PM Peak Hour                                                                                           SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                                 Page 2
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                            4/23/2015

Total Network Performance

Denied Del/Veh (s)                0.5
Total Del/Veh (s)               155.8
Vehicles Entered               12165
Vehicles Exited                12181
Hourly Exit Rate                6091
Input Volume                   37459
% of Volume                       16
Denied Entry Before                 1
Denied Entry After                  0




PM Peak Hour                            SimTraffic Report
                                                  Page 5
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                             4/23/2015

Intersection: 1: US 101 NB On-Ramp & Donohoe St
Movement                  EB   WB    WB     SB
Directions Served        LTR     L    TR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)        25   222     7    54
Average Queue (ft)         2    70     0    15
95th Queue (ft)           13   140     5    42
Link Distance (ft)      2232   331   331   150
Upstream Blk Time (%)            0
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: University Ave & Donohoe St
Movement                 EB     EB    EB   WB    WB    WB    WB     B23    B23     B25      B25        NB
Directions Served         L      T     R     L    LT    TR     R      T      T       T        T         L
Maximum Queue (ft)       79    205   143   215   627   633   556     75     82       4       10       246
Average Queue (ft)       19     87    49   140   313   326   228      3      4       0        0       100
95th Queue (ft)          52    157    98   260   539   531   443     58     64       3        5       186
Link Distance (ft)             331               612   612   612   1338   1338   10847    10847       115
Upstream Blk Time (%)                              1     1     0                                       10
Queuing Penalty (veh)                              0     0     0                                       40
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   175          250   190
Storage Blk Time (%)            1            1   19
Queuing Penalty (veh)           2            4   25

Intersection: 2: University Ave & Donohoe St
Movement                 NB     NB    NB    NB    SB    SB    SB
Directions Served         L      T     T     R     L     T    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)      262    266   281   115   260   698   688
Average Queue (ft)      183    176   216   110   105   425   421
95th Queue (ft)         267    292   317   134   278   761   757
Link Distance (ft)      115    115   115               994   994
Upstream Blk Time (%)    45     20    21     7           0     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)   185     83    84     0           1     1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                      100   235
Storage Blk Time (%)                  24    10     0   45
Queuing Penalty (veh)                162    28     0   21




PM Peak Hour                                                                             SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                   Page 6
US 101/University Avenue Interchange
Existing Conditions                                                                               4/23/2015

Intersection: 3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp
Movement                WB    WB    WB      NB      NB     NB     SB    SB     SB     SB
Directions Served         L    LR     R      T       T      R      L     L      T      T
Maximum Queue (ft)      229   238   235    378     382    362    274   317    404    299
Average Queue (ft)      136   192   185    327     343    113    159   179     81    101
95th Queue (ft)         217   245   247    393     392    263    250   273    208    212
Link Distance (ft)      166   166   166    346     346    346                1008   1008
Upstream Blk Time (%)     6    26    20      7      12      1
Queuing Penalty (veh)    21    86    67     39      68      6
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                                            225   225
Storage Blk Time (%)                                               2     5     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                              7    18     1

Intersection: 4: University Ave & Woodland Ave
Movement                 EB    EB    EB     B20     B20    WB    WB     NB    NB     NB        B21     B22
Directions Served         L     L    TR       T       T     LT     R     L     T     TR          T       T
Maximum Queue (ft)      253   259   240     692     784   1039    75   150   289    298        284    1426
Average Queue (ft)      178   203   117     204     279    519    74    37   219    261        209     569
95th Queue (ft)         273   273   227     982    1061   1296    78   113   292    314        353    1620
Link Distance (ft)      160   160   160   16130   16130   6518               203    203        181   17674
Upstream Blk Time (%)    31    49     9                                       19     42         33
Queuing Penalty (veh)     0     0     0                                        0      0          0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                                            50    125
Storage Blk Time (%)                                       25    64      0    39
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                      90    54      0    11

Intersection: 4: University Ave & Woodland Ave
Movement                 SB    SB    SB     SB
Directions Served        UL     T     T      R
Maximum Queue (ft)      315   330   309    170
Average Queue (ft)      173   158   167     65
95th Queue (ft)         278   263   258    118
Link Distance (ft)            346   346    346
Upstream Blk Time (%)           0     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)           1     0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   250
Storage Blk Time (%)      3    1
Queuing Penalty (veh)     8    1




PM Peak Hour                                                                               SimTraffic Report
                                                                                                     Page 7
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: US 101 NB On-Ramp & Donohoe Street                                                                                        4/22/2015



Movement                            EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         0     562      394     440     247        1        0       0        0        0       1        1
Sign Control                                Free                     Free                      Stop                      Stop
Grade                                        0%                       0%                        0%                        0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91   0.91     0.91      0.91   0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91     0.91
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0     618     433      484     271        1         0      0        0        0       1        1
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                 None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                  410
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               273                     1051                       2074   2074      834    2073     2290      272
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   273                     1051                       2074   2074      834    2073     2290      272
tC, single (s)                        4.1                     4.1                        7.1    6.5       6.2    7.1      6.5       6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                                2.2                      2.2                       3.5     4.0      3.3     3.5      4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                      100                       28                        100    100      100     100       90      100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1302                      670                         15     15      371      17       11      772
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1    WB 1    WB 2      SB 1
Volume Total                        1051     484     273         2
Volume Left                            0      484       0        0
Volume Right                         433        0       1        1
cSH                                 1302      670   1700        22
Volume to Capacity                  0.00     0.72    0.16     0.10
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0     154        0        7
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     23.0     0.0    187.3
Lane LOS                                        C                F
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     14.7            187.3
Approach LOS                                                     F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                          6.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   91.3%        ICU Level of Service                      F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15




Existing                                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                                          East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: University Avenue & Donohoe Street                                                                                  4/22/2015



Movement                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR      SBL     SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    0       96     466     520     519      368       116     310       384       17    999      53
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900       1900    1900     1900     1900    1900    1900
Total Lost time (s)                    4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0        4.0     4.0       4.0     4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor                    1.00     1.00    0.91    0.86     0.91      0.97    0.95      1.00    1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00    0.99     0.89      1.00    1.00      0.99    1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes                      1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                                   1.00     0.85    1.00    0.99    0.85       1.00    1.00     0.85     1.00    0.99
Flt Protected                         1.00     1.00    0.95    0.99    1.00       0.95    1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                    1863     1583    1610    3114    1277       3433    3539      1566    1770    3482
Flt Permitted                         1.00     1.00    0.95    0.99    1.00       0.95    1.00     1.00     0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    1863     1583    1610    3114    1277       3433    3539      1566    1770    3482
Peak-hour factor, PHF        0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                 0     104      507     565     564      400       126     337       417       18   1086       58
RTOR Reduction (vph)            0        0       53       0       3     229          0       0        55       0       3       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           0     104      454     384     794     119        126     337       362       18   1141        0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                                                      57                            4                      87
Turn Type                    Split     NA pm+ov       Split     NA    Perm       Prot     NA     pm+ov      Prot     NA
Protected Phases                4        4     5         8       8                 5       2           8      1       6
Permitted Phases                               4                          8                            2
Actuated Green, G (s)                  9.0  27.6      48.0     48.0    48.0      18.6    65.0     113.0      2.0    48.4
Effective Green, g (s)                 9.0  27.6      48.0     48.0    48.0      18.6    65.0     113.0      2.0    48.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                    0.06  0.20      0.34     0.34    0.34      0.13    0.46      0.81     0.01    0.35
Clearance Time (s)                     4.0   4.0       4.0      4.0     4.0       4.0     4.0        4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                  3.0   3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                     119  357       552     1067     437       456     1643     1308        25   1203
v/s Ratio Prot                        0.06 c0.17      0.24    c0.25              0.04    0.10      0.09     0.01   c0.33
v/s Ratio Perm                              0.12                       0.09                         0.14
v/c Ratio                             0.87  1.27      0.70     0.74    0.27      0.28    0.21      0.28     0.72    0.95
Uniform Delay, d1                     64.9  56.2      39.7     40.6    33.4      54.6    22.2        3.4    68.7    44.6
Progression Factor                    1.00  1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                 53.8 142.5       7.1      4.7     1.5       1.5     0.1        0.1    67.0    15.1
Delay (s)                            118.8 198.7      46.8     45.3    34.9      56.1    22.3        3.5   135.7    59.7
Level of Service                         F     F         D        D       C         E       C          A       F       E
Approach Delay (s)                   185.1                     43.3                      18.2                       60.9
Approach LOS                             F                        D                         B                          E
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         63.6       HCM 2000 Level of Service                   E
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.98
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     140.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            91.1%        ICU Level of Service                        F
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing                                                                                                        Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                                   East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  262     282      960    445    907     1531
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.91    0.95   0.88   0.97     0.95
Frt                           0.96    0.85    1.00   0.85    1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.97     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3336    1441    3539   2787    3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.97     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3336    1441    3539   2787    3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               285     307    1043     484    986     1664
RTOR Reduction (vph)            40    143        0     11       0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         365       44   1043     473    986     1664
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm       NA pm+ov     Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2      8       1        6
Permitted Phases                        8               2
Actuated Green, G (s)        28.0    28.0     39.8   67.8    38.0    81.8
Effective Green, g (s)       28.0    28.0     39.8   67.8    38.0    81.8
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.24    0.24     0.34   0.58    0.32    0.69
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            792     342    1195   1698    1107     2457
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.11            c0.29   0.07   c0.29    0.47
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.03            0.10
v/c Ratio                    0.46    0.13     0.87   0.28    0.89    0.68
Uniform Delay, d1            38.4    35.3     36.6   12.6    37.9    10.4
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         1.9     0.8      7.3    0.1    10.9     0.8
Delay (s)                    40.4    36.1     43.9   12.7    48.8    11.1
Level of Service                D       D        D      B       D       B
Approach Delay (s)           39.0             34.0                   25.1
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         29.7     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.77
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     117.8     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            72.8%      ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                                 East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
4: Woodland Avenue & University Avenue                                                                                4/22/2015



Movement                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR     SBU       SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  376       83      27      23     106      313         58    711      13       5       201      960
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900     1900     1900
Lane Width                      12      12      12      16       16      16         12      12     12      12        12       12
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0                      4.0     4.0        4.0     4.0                      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97    1.00                      1.00    1.00       1.00    0.95                     1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes              1.00    0.96                     1.00     0.98      1.00    1.00                      1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes              1.00    1.00                     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00                      1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.96                     1.00    0.85       1.00    1.00                     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95    1.00                      0.99    1.00       0.95    1.00                     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    1731                     2092    1751       1770    3520                     1770     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95    1.00                      0.99    1.00       0.95    1.00                     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    1731                     2092    1751       1770    3520                     1770     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               409       90      29      25     115      340         63    773      14        5      218    1043
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      10       0       0        0     260          0       1      0        0        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         409     109        0       0     140       80         63    786       0        0     223     1043
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             87                        5                        57
Turn Type                    Split    NA              Split     NA    Perm       Prot      NA             Prot     Prot     NA
Protected Phases                4      4                 8       8                 5        2               1        1       6
Permitted Phases                                                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)        20.8    20.8                      12.3    12.3       4.6     38.0                    17.1     50.5
Effective Green, g (s)       20.8    20.8                      12.3    12.3       4.6     38.0                    17.1     50.5
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.20    0.20                      0.12    0.12      0.04     0.36                    0.16     0.48
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0                       4.0     4.0       4.0      4.0                     4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0                       3.0     3.0       3.0      3.0                     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            685     345                       246     206        78    1283                      290    1715
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.12    0.06                     c0.07              0.04    c0.22                   c0.13    c0.29
v/s Ratio Perm                                                         0.05
v/c Ratio                    0.60    0.32                      0.57    0.39      0.81     0.61                    0.77     0.61
Uniform Delay, d1            37.9    35.6                      43.4    42.5      49.4     27.1                    41.7     19.6
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00                      1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00                    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         1.4     0.5                       9.2     5.4      43.8      0.9                    11.6      0.6
Delay (s)                    39.3    36.2                      52.7    47.9      93.1     27.9                    53.3     20.2
Level of Service                D       D                         D       D         F        C                       D        C
Approach Delay (s)                   38.6                      49.3                       32.8                             23.3
Approach LOS                            D                         D                          C                                C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         30.8       HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.64
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     104.2       Sum of lost time (s)                   16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            81.5%        ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing                                                                                                        Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                                   East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
4: Woodland Avenue & University Avenue                                                                 4/22/2015



Movement                 SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               627
Ideal Flow (vphpl)       1900
Lane Width                  12
Total Lost time (s)        4.0
Lane Util. Factor         1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes           0.94
Flpb, ped/bikes           1.00
Frt                       0.85
Flt Protected             1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)        1485
Flt Permitted             1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)        1485
Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)            682
RTOR Reduction (vph)       351
Lane Group Flow (vph)     331
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)         36
Turn Type                Perm
Protected Phases
Permitted Phases            6
Actuated Green, G (s)    50.5
Effective Green, g (s)   50.5
Actuated g/C Ratio       0.48
Clearance Time (s)        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        719
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm           0.22
v/c Ratio                0.46
Uniform Delay, d1        17.8
Progression Factor       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     0.5
Delay (s)                18.3
Level of Service            B
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




Existing                                                                                         Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                    East Palo Alto US 101/University Avenue Interchange Improvements
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: US 101 NB On-Ramp & Donohoe St                                                                                           4/22/2015



Movement                            EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        0     278       72     372     839        2         0       0       0        2       3       13
Sign Control                               Free                     Free                       Stop                     Stop
Grade                                       0%                       0%                         0%                       0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92   0.92     0.92      0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 0    302       78     404     912        2         0       0       0        2       3       14
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)                                                 410
pX, platoon unblocked               0.67                                                0.67    0.67            0.67     0.67    0.67
vC, conflicting volume              914                      380                       2078    2064     341    2063     2102     913
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  631                      380                       2357    2336     341    2335     2393      630
tC, single (s)                       4.1                      4.1                       7.1     6.5      6.2    7.1      6.5       6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                     2.2                        3.5      4.0     3.3     3.5      4.0      3.3
p0 queue free %                     100                       66                        100     100     100      83       78       96
cM capacity (veh/h)                 642                     1178                         10      16     701      13       15      325
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   WB 1    WB 2      SB 1
Volume Total                         380    404     914        20
Volume Left                            0     404       0        2
Volume Right                          78       0       2       14
cSH                                  642   1178    1700        45
Volume to Capacity                  0.00    0.34    0.54     0.43
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 0      39       0       39
Control Delay (s)                    0.0     9.6     0.0    135.3
Lane LOS                                       A                F
Approach Delay (s)                   0.0     3.0            135.3
Approach LOS                                                    F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         3.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  76.6%        ICU Level of Service                      D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




Existing                                                                                                              Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak Hour                                                                     East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: University Ave & Donohoe St                                                                                          4/22/2015



Movement                     EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT       NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    22    108       150    270     660      665       410     551       687       47    554      143
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900       1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0        4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0
Lane Util. Factor            1.00    1.00      1.00   0.91    0.86     0.91      0.97    0.95      1.00    1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes              1.00    1.00      0.99   1.00    0.96     0.84      1.00    1.00      0.99    1.00    0.95
Flpb, ped/bikes              1.00    1.00      1.00   1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00
Frt                           1.00    1.00     0.85    1.00    0.96    0.85       1.00    1.00     0.85     1.00    0.97
Flt Protected                0.95    1.00      1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00      1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            1770    1863     1561    1610    2944    1212       3433    3539     1568     1770    3265
Flt Permitted                0.95    1.00      1.00   0.95    1.00     1.00      0.95    1.00      1.00    0.95    1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            1770    1863     1561    1610    2944    1212       3433    3539     1568     1770    3265
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                 24    117       163    293     717      723       446     599       747       51    602      155
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0       0      116       0      21     258          0       0       82        0      16        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)           24    117        47    264     993      197       446     599       665       51    741         0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                              30                      57                            4                       87
Turn Type                    Split     NA    pm+ov    Split     NA    Perm       Prot     NA     pm+ov     Prot      NA
Protected Phases                4       4         5      8       8                 5       2           8     1        6
Permitted Phases                                  4                        8                           2
Actuated Green, G (s)        13.4     13.4     40.2   50.0     50.0    50.0      26.8    39.8      89.8    20.8     33.8
Effective Green, g (s)       13.4     13.4     40.2   50.0     50.0    50.0      26.8    39.8      89.8    20.8     33.8
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.10     0.10     0.29   0.36     0.36    0.36      0.19    0.28      0.64    0.15     0.24
Clearance Time (s)            4.0      4.0      4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0    4.0        4.0     4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0      3.0      3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0       3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            169      178      492    575    1051      432       657    1006     1005      262      788
v/s Ratio Prot               0.01    c0.06     0.02   0.16    c0.34              0.13    0.17     c0.24    0.03    c0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                                 0.01                    0.16                        0.19
v/c Ratio                    0.14     0.66     0.10   0.46     0.94    0.46      0.68    0.60      0.66    0.19     0.94
Uniform Delay, d1            58.0     61.1     36.6   34.6     43.7    34.5      52.6    43.2      15.6    52.3     52.1
Progression Factor           1.00     1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         0.4      8.5      0.1    0.6     16.1     0.8       5.6     1.0       1.6     0.4     19.1
Delay (s)                    58.4     69.5     36.7   35.2     59.7    35.3      58.2    44.1      17.3    52.6     71.2
Level of Service                E        E        D      D        E       D         E       D          B      D        E
Approach Delay (s)                    51.0                     49.6                      36.4                       70.0
Approach LOS                             D                        D                         D                          E
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         48.1       HCM 2000 Level of Service                   D
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.86
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     140.0       Sum of lost time (s)                     16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            70.1%        ICU Level of Service                       C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing                                                                                                        Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak Hour                                                               East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  357     639    1348    349     498      713
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900  1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.91    0.95  1.00    0.97     0.95
Frt                           0.93    0.85    1.00  0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.97     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3271    1441    3539  1583     3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.97     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3271    1441    3539  1583     3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92  0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               388     695    1465    379     541      775
RTOR Reduction (vph)          135     271        0    12        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         601       76   1465    367     541      775
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm      NA pm+ov      Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2     8        1        6
Permitted Phases                        8              2
Actuated Green, G (s)        26.0    26.0     54.5  80.5     26.0    84.5
Effective Green, g (s)       26.0    26.0     54.5  80.5     26.0    84.5
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.22    0.22     0.46  0.68     0.22    0.71
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            717     316    1627  1128       753    2523
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.18            c0.41  0.07    c0.16    0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.05           0.16
v/c Ratio                    0.84    0.24     0.90  0.33     0.72    0.31
Uniform Delay, d1            44.2    38.1     29.5   7.8     42.9     6.2
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00  1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2        11.3     1.8      7.2   0.2      5.8     0.1
Delay (s)                    55.5    39.9     36.7   8.0     48.7     6.3
Level of Service                E       D        D     A        D       A
Approach Delay (s)           50.5             30.8                   23.7
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         33.6     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.84
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     118.5     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            78.4%      ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing                                                                                                      Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak Hour                                                             East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
4: University Ave & Woodland Ave                                                                                      4/22/2015



Movement                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBU      SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  465     114       51      16       70     360         30    860       9      12       206      575
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900       1900    1900    1900    1900     1900     1900
Lane Width                      12      12      12      16       16      16         12      12     12      12        12       12
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0                      4.0     4.0        4.0     4.0                      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97    1.00                      1.00    1.00       1.00    0.95                     1.00     0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes              1.00    0.95                     1.00     0.98      1.00    1.00                      1.00     1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes              1.00    1.00                     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00                      1.00     1.00
Frt                           1.00    0.95                     1.00    0.85       1.00    1.00                     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95    1.00                      0.99    1.00       0.95    1.00                     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    1689                     2092    1760       1770    3527                     1770     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95    1.00                      0.99    1.00       0.95    1.00                     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    1689                     2092    1760       1770    3527                     1770     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92    0.92   0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               505     124       55      17       76     391         33    935      10       13      224      625
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0      14       0       0        0     189          0       1      0        0        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         505     165        0       0       93    202          33    944       0        0     237      625
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                             87                        5                        57
Turn Type                    Split    NA              Split    NA     Perm       Prot      NA             Prot     Prot     NA
Protected Phases                4      4                 8      8                  5        2               1        1       6
Permitted Phases                                                          8
Actuated Green, G (s)        22.5    22.5                     23.1     23.1       3.5     36.4                    18.8     51.7
Effective Green, g (s)       22.5    22.5                     23.1     23.1       3.5     36.4                    18.8     51.7
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.19    0.19                     0.20     0.20      0.03     0.31                    0.16     0.44
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0                      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0                     4.0      4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0                      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0                     3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            661     325                      413      348        53    1099                      284     1566
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.15    0.10                     0.04               0.02    c0.27                   c0.13     0.18
v/s Ratio Perm                                                        c0.12
v/c Ratio                    0.76    0.51                     0.23     0.58      0.62     0.86                    0.83     0.40
Uniform Delay, d1            44.6    42.2                     39.3     42.5      56.0     37.8                    47.5     22.0
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00                     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00                    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         5.2     1.3                      1.3      6.9      20.6      6.9                    18.6      0.2
Delay (s)                    49.9    43.5                     40.6     49.4      76.6     44.6                    66.1     22.2
Level of Service                D       D                        D        D         E        D                       E        C
Approach Delay (s)                   48.2                     47.7                        45.7                             30.6
Approach LOS                            D                        D                           D                                C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         41.2       HCM 2000 Level of Service                 D
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.77
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     116.8       Sum of lost time (s)                   16.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            89.0%        ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing                                                                                                        Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak Hour                                                               East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
4: University Ave & Woodland Ave                                                           4/22/2015



Movement                 SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               277
Ideal Flow (vphpl)       1900
Lane Width                  12
Total Lost time (s)        4.0
Lane Util. Factor         1.00
Frpb, ped/bikes           0.93
Flpb, ped/bikes           1.00
Frt                       0.85
Flt Protected             1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)        1475
Flt Permitted             1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)        1475
Peak-hour factor, PHF     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)            301
RTOR Reduction (vph)       168
Lane Group Flow (vph)     133
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)         36
Turn Type                Perm
Protected Phases
Permitted Phases            6
Actuated Green, G (s)    51.7
Effective Green, g (s)   51.7
Actuated g/C Ratio       0.44
Clearance Time (s)        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)        652
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm           0.09
v/c Ratio                0.20
Uniform Delay, d1        19.9
Progression Factor       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     0.2
Delay (s)                20.1
Level of Service            C
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




Existing                                                                             Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak Hour                                    East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  262     282      960    445    907     1531
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.88    0.95   0.88   0.97     0.95
Frt                           1.00    0.85    1.00   0.85    1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    2787    3539   2787    3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    2787    3539   2787    3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               285     307    1043     484    986     1664
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0    234        0     11       0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         285       73   1043     473    986     1664
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm       NA pm+ov     Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2      8       1        6
Permitted Phases                        8               2
Actuated Green, G (s)        28.0    28.0     39.8   67.8    38.0    81.8
Effective Green, g (s)       28.0    28.0     39.8   67.8    38.0    81.8
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.24    0.24     0.34   0.58    0.32    0.69
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            815     662    1195   1698    1107     2457
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.08            c0.29   0.07   c0.29    0.47
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.03            0.10
v/c Ratio                    0.35    0.11     0.87   0.28    0.89    0.68
Uniform Delay, d1            37.3    35.1     36.6   12.6    37.9    10.4
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         1.2     0.3      7.3    0.1    10.9     0.8
Delay (s)                    38.5    35.5     43.9   12.7    48.8    11.1
Level of Service                D       D        D      B       D       B
Approach Delay (s)           36.9             34.0                   25.1
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         29.4     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.74
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     117.8     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            69.9%      ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing + Project                                                                                            Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                                             East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  357     639    1348    349     498      713
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900  1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.88    0.95  1.00    0.97     0.95
Frt                           1.00    0.85    1.00  0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    2787    3539  1583     3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    2787    3539  1583     3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92  0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               388     695    1465    379     541      775
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0    489        0    12        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         388     206    1465   367      541      775
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm      NA pm+ov      Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2     8        1        6
Permitted Phases                        8              2
Actuated Green, G (s)        26.0    26.0     54.5  80.5     26.0    84.5
Effective Green, g (s)       26.0    26.0     54.5  80.5     26.0    84.5
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.22    0.22     0.46  0.68     0.22    0.71
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            753     611    1627  1128       753    2523
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.11            c0.41  0.07    c0.16    0.22
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.07           0.16
v/c Ratio                    0.52    0.34     0.90  0.33     0.72    0.31
Uniform Delay, d1            40.7    39.0     29.5   7.8     42.9     6.2
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00  1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         2.5     1.5      7.2   0.2      5.8     0.1
Delay (s)                    43.2    40.5     36.7   8.0     48.7     6.3
Level of Service                D       D        D     A        D       A
Approach Delay (s)           41.5             30.8                   23.7
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         31.3     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.76
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     118.5     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            71.7%      ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




Existing + Project                                                                                            Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak Hour                                                             East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  282     353      966    452    950     1532
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.91    0.95   0.88   0.97     0.95
Frt                           0.95    0.85    1.00   0.85    1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.97     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3316    1441    3539   2787    3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.97     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3316    1441    3539   2787    3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               307     384    1050     491   1033     1665
RTOR Reduction (vph)            63    167        0      9       0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         409       52   1050     482   1033     1665
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm       NA pm+ov     Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2      8       1        6
Permitted Phases                        8               2
Actuated Green, G (s)        28.0    28.0     40.0   68.0    38.0    82.0
Effective Green, g (s)       28.0    28.0     40.0   68.0    38.0    82.0
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.24    0.24     0.34   0.58    0.32    0.69
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            786     341    1199   1700    1105     2459
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.12            c0.30   0.07   c0.30    0.47
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.04            0.11
v/c Ratio                    0.52    0.15     0.88   0.28    0.93    0.68
Uniform Delay, d1            39.2    35.6     36.7   12.7    38.8    10.4
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         2.5     0.9      7.4    0.1    15.3     0.8
Delay (s)                    41.6    36.6     44.1   12.8    54.1    11.1
Level of Service                D       D        D      B       D       B
Approach Delay (s)           40.0             34.1                   27.6
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         31.4     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.80
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     118.0     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            75.6%      ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2020 No Project                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                                             East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  357     701    1369    350     505      742
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900  1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.91    0.95  1.00    0.97     0.95
Frt                           0.93    0.85    1.00  0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.98     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3263    1441    3539  1583     3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.98     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3263    1441    3539  1583     3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92  0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               388     762    1488    380     549      807
RTOR Reduction (vph)          148     277        0    12        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         621     104    1488   368      549      807
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm      NA pm+ov      Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2     8        1        6
Permitted Phases                        8              2
Actuated Green, G (s)        26.0    26.0     54.9  80.9     26.0    84.9
Effective Green, g (s)       26.0    26.0     54.9  80.9     26.0    84.9
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.22    0.22     0.46  0.68     0.22    0.71
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            713     315    1634  1130       750    2527
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.19            c0.42  0.07    c0.16    0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.07           0.16
v/c Ratio                    0.87    0.33     0.91  0.33     0.73    0.32
Uniform Delay, d1            44.8    39.1     29.7   7.8     43.2     6.3
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00  1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2        13.8     2.8      8.0   0.2      6.2     0.1
Delay (s)                    58.6    41.9     37.7   8.0     49.4     6.4
Level of Service                E       D        D     A        D       A
Approach Delay (s)           53.1             31.7                   23.8
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         34.9     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.86
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     118.9     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            79.8%      ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2020 No Project                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak Hour                                                             East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  282     353      966    452    950     1532
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.88    0.95   0.88   0.97     0.95
Frt                           1.00    0.85    1.00   0.85    1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    2787    3539   2787    3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    2787    3539   2787    3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               307     384    1050     491   1033     1665
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0    293        0      9       0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         307       91   1050     482   1033     1665
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm       NA pm+ov     Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2      8       1        6
Permitted Phases                        8               2
Actuated Green, G (s)        28.0    28.0     40.0   68.0    38.0    82.0
Effective Green, g (s)       28.0    28.0     40.0   68.0    38.0    82.0
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.24    0.24     0.34   0.58    0.32    0.69
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            814     661    1199   1700    1105     2459
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.09            c0.30   0.07   c0.30    0.47
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.03            0.11
v/c Ratio                    0.38    0.14     0.88   0.28    0.93    0.68
Uniform Delay, d1            37.7    35.5     36.7   12.7    38.8    10.4
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         1.3     0.4      7.4    0.1    15.3     0.8
Delay (s)                    39.0    35.9     44.1   12.8    54.1    11.1
Level of Service                D       D        D      B       D       B
Approach Delay (s)           37.3             34.1                   27.6
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         31.0     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.76
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     118.0     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            71.8%      ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2020 + Project                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak Hour                                                             East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  357     701    1369    350     505      742
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900  1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.88    0.95  1.00    0.97     0.95
Frt                           1.00    0.85    1.00  0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    2787    3539  1583     3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    2787    3539  1583     3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92  0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               388     762    1488    380     549      807
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0    488        0    12        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         388     274    1488   368      549      807
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm      NA pm+ov      Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2     8        1        6
Permitted Phases                        8              2
Actuated Green, G (s)        26.0    26.0     54.9  80.9     26.0    84.9
Effective Green, g (s)       26.0    26.0     54.9  80.9     26.0    84.9
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.22    0.22     0.46  0.68     0.22    0.71
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            750     609    1634  1130       750    2527
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.11            c0.42  0.07    c0.16    0.23
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.10           0.16
v/c Ratio                    0.52    0.45     0.91  0.33     0.73    0.32
Uniform Delay, d1            40.9    40.2     29.7   7.8     43.2     6.3
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00  1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         2.5     2.4      8.0   0.2      6.2     0.1
Delay (s)                    43.5    42.6     37.7   8.0     49.4     6.4
Level of Service                D       D        D     A        D       A
Approach Delay (s)           42.9             31.7                   23.8
Approach LOS                    D                C                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         32.2     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.77
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     118.9     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            72.4%      ICU Level of Service                     C
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2020+Project                                                                                                  Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak                                                                  East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  362     639      990    479   1120     1537
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.91    0.95   0.88   0.97     0.95
Frt                           0.93    0.85    1.00   0.85    1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.97     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3272    1441    3539   2787    3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.97     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3272    1441    3539   2787    3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               393     695    1076     521   1217     1671
RTOR Reduction (vph)          134     278        0     10       0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         607       69   1076     511   1217     1671
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm       NA pm+ov     Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2      8       1        6
Permitted Phases                        8               2
Actuated Green, G (s)        24.0    24.0     38.9   62.9    45.0    87.9
Effective Green, g (s)       24.0    24.0     38.9   62.9    45.0    87.9
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.20    0.20     0.32   0.52    0.38    0.73
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            654     288    1148   1555    1288     2594
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.19            c0.30   0.07   c0.35    0.47
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.05            0.12
v/c Ratio                    0.93    0.24     0.94   0.33    0.94    0.64
Uniform Delay, d1            47.1    40.3     39.3   16.4    36.2     8.1
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2        21.5     2.0     13.9    0.1    14.9     0.6
Delay (s)                    68.6    42.3     53.2   16.5    51.2     8.6
Level of Service                E       D        D      B       D       A
Approach Delay (s)           60.2             41.3                   26.6
Approach LOS                    E                D                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         37.3     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 D
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.94
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     119.9     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            86.4%      ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2040 No Project                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak                                                                  East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  357     949    1451    356     533      860
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900  1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.91    0.95  1.00    0.97     0.95
Frt                           0.91    0.85    1.00  0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.98     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3235    1441    3539  1583     3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.98     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3235    1441    3539  1583     3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92  0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               388    1032    1577    387     579      935
RTOR Reduction (vph)          201     236        0     4        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         703     280    1577   383      579      935
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm      NA pm+ov      Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2     8        1        6
Permitted Phases                        8              2
Actuated Green, G (s)        30.0    30.0     56.0  86.0     22.0    82.0
Effective Green, g (s)       30.0    30.0     56.0  86.0     22.0    82.0
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.25    0.25     0.47  0.72     0.18    0.68
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0   3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            808     360    1651  1187       629    2418
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.22            c0.45  0.08    c0.17    0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.19           0.16
v/c Ratio                    0.87    0.78     0.96  0.32     0.92    0.39
Uniform Delay, d1            43.1    41.9     30.8   6.3     48.1     8.2
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00  1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2        12.3    15.1     13.0   0.2     20.9     0.1
Delay (s)                    55.5    57.0     43.8   6.4     69.1     8.3
Level of Service                E       E        D     A        E       A
Approach Delay (s)           56.0             36.4                   31.5
Approach LOS                    E                D                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         40.6     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 D
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.92
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     120.0     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            86.0%      ICU Level of Service                      E
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2040 No Project                                                                                               Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak                                                                  East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Avenue & US 101 SB Ramps                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  362     639      990    479   1120     1537
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900   1900    1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0    4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.88    0.95   0.88   0.97     0.95
Frt                           1.00    0.85    1.00   0.85    1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    2787    3539   2787    3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95     1.00    1.00   1.00   0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    2787    3539   2787    3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92    0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               393     695    1076     521   1217     1671
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0    556        0     10       0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         393     139    1076    511    1217     1671
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm       NA pm+ov     Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2      8       1        6
Permitted Phases                        8               2
Actuated Green, G (s)        24.0    24.0     38.9   62.9    45.0    87.9
Effective Green, g (s)       24.0    24.0     38.9   62.9    45.0    87.9
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.20    0.20     0.32   0.52    0.38    0.73
Clearance Time (s)            4.0     4.0      4.0    4.0     4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0     3.0      3.0    3.0     3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            687     557    1148   1555    1288     2594
v/s Ratio Prot              c0.11            c0.30   0.07   c0.35    0.47
v/s Ratio Perm                       0.05            0.12
v/c Ratio                    0.57    0.25     0.94   0.33    0.94    0.64
Uniform Delay, d1            43.3    40.4     39.3   16.4    36.2     8.1
Progression Factor           1.00    1.00     1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         3.4     1.1     13.9    0.1    14.9     0.6
Delay (s)                    46.8    41.4     53.2   16.5    51.2     8.6
Level of Service                D       D        D      B       D       A
Approach Delay (s)           43.4             41.3                   26.6
Approach LOS                    D                D                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         34.1     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 C
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.86
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     119.9     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            79.6%      ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2040+Project                                                                                                  Synchro 8 Report
AM Peak                                                                  East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: University Ave & US 101 SB Off-Ramp                                                                              4/22/2015



Movement                     WBL     WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                  357     949    1451    356     533      860
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900    1900    1900  1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)            4.0     4.0     4.0   4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Util. Factor            0.97     0.88    0.95  1.00    0.97     0.95
Frt                           1.00    0.85    1.00  0.85     1.00     1.00
Flt Protected                0.95     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)            3433    2787    3539  1583     3433     3539
Flt Permitted                0.95     1.00    1.00  1.00    0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)            3433    2787    3539  1583     3433     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF         0.92    0.92    0.92  0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               388    1032    1577    387     579      935
RTOR Reduction (vph)             0    416        0     4        0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)         388     616    1577   383      579      935
Turn Type                     Prot   Perm      NA pm+ov      Prot      NA
Protected Phases                 8               2     8        1        6
Permitted Phases                         8             2
Actuated Green, G (s)        30.0     30.0    56.0  86.0     22.0    82.0
Effective Green, g (s)       30.0     30.0    56.0  86.0     22.0    82.0
Actuated g/C Ratio           0.25     0.25    0.47  0.72     0.18    0.68
Clearance Time (s)            4.0      4.0     4.0   4.0      4.0     4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)         3.0      3.0     3.0   3.0      3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)            858      696   1651  1187       629    2418
v/s Ratio Prot               0.11            c0.45  0.08    c0.17    0.26
v/s Ratio Perm                       c0.22          0.16
v/c Ratio                    0.45     0.88    0.96  0.32     0.92    0.39
Uniform Delay, d1            38.1     43.3    30.8   6.3     48.1     8.2
Progression Factor           1.00     1.00    1.00  1.00     1.00    1.00
Incremental Delay, d2         1.7     15.3    13.0   0.2     20.9     0.1
Delay (s)                    39.8     58.7    43.8   6.4     69.1     8.3
Level of Service                D        E       D     A        E       A
Approach Delay (s)           53.5             36.4                   31.5
Approach LOS                    D                D                      C
Intersection Summary
HCM 2000 Control Delay                         39.9     HCM 2000 Level of Service                 D
HCM 2000 Volume to Capacity ratio              0.93
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                     120.0     Sum of lost time (s)                   12.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization            80.0%      ICU Level of Service                     D
Analysis Period (min)                            15
c Critical Lane Group




2040+Project                                                                                                  Synchro 8 Report
PM Peak                                                                  East Palo Alto University Avenue/US 101 Improvements
                       Application of Criteria for a Project of Air Quality Concern

Project Title: Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvement Project
Project Summary for Air Quality Conformity Task Force Meeting: (February 25, 2016)

Description

The project would:
  Construct a new peak period use lane (PPUL) on the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge by converting
     the existing shoulder of the eastbound lower deck to a third travel lane
  Construct a Class I bi-directional bicycle and pedestrian path on the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge
     with adjoining segments in Contra Costa and Marin Counties

  The project will:
   Improve congestion and delay on eastbound I-580 during evening commute periods
   Provide access for bicyclists and pedestrians across the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge with
     connections to regional bicycle trails adjoining the bridge on both sides

Background
  Added to the 2015 TIP (September 2015)
  Seeking air quality conformity determination on or before (February 2016)
  CEQA/NEPA process for Categorical Exemption/Categorical Exclusion (CE/CE) to be completed in June
    2016
  No public outreach or review required under a CE/CE
  Anticipated construction start date - September 2016

Not a Project of Air Quality Concern (40 CFR 93.123(b)(1))
(i) New or expanded highway projects with significant number/increase in diesel vehicles?
    Not a new or expanded highway project – existing shoulder lane conversion
    No change in percentage of diesel truck AADT as a result of the project
    Diesel truck AADT (5,244) well below significance threshold of 10,000

(ii) The maximum percentage of diesel vehicles in the project area would not increase as a result of the
project?
    Diesel vehicles represent less than 7% of intersection traffic volume
    The project would not result in substantial redistribution of traffic or changes in the percentage of truck
       trips through the site

(iii) New bus and rail terminals and transfer points?—Not Applicable

(iv) Expanded bus and rail terminals and transfer points?—Not Applicable

(v) Affects areas identified in PM10 or PM2.5 implementation plan as site of violation?
   U.S. EPA final rule established the San Francisco Bay Area as an attainment area for the 2.5 National
      Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) (January 2013)
   Therefore, the federal State Implementation Plan (SIP) is suspended; no attainment plan is required
   The project would not create a new, or worsen an existing, PM 2.5 violation and meets the Clean Air Act
      requirements and 40 CFR 9.116
                      PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation


RTIP ID# 240758

TIP ID# MRN-15009

Air Quality Conformity Task Force Consideration Date
February 25, 2016

Project Description

The total length of the project is approximately 6 miles [Contra Costa County post mile (PM) R4.98 to Marin County
PM 3.16]. Within the project limits there are six existing structures; San Quentin Undercrossing (Main Street) (Br. No.
27-0070), the RSR Bridge (Br. No. 28-0100), Western Drive Undercrossing (Stenmark Drive) (Br. No. 28-0141R),
Scofield Avenue Undercrossing (Br. No. 28-0140 L/R), Marine Street Undercrossing (Br. No. 28-0139), and the Castro
Street Undercrossing (Br. No. 28-0290 L/R/S). All proposed improvements are anticipated to be within existing
highway and local street rights-of-way, except as noted below in Project Element 3.

The project consists of three major components that are interrelated:
      Project Element 1: EB I-580 travel lane between Marin County and Contra Costa County
      Project Element 2: Bicycle/Pedestrian Path in Contra Costa County
      Project Element 3: Bicycle/Pedestrian Path on the RSR Bridge and connections to the RSR Bridge
     
Project Element 1 – Eastbound I-580 Third Lane (including RSR Bridge Pilot Project)
Project Element 1 of the proposed project would construct a new third travel lane by converting the existing shoulder of
the eastbound lower deck of the RSR Bridge to a travel lane. The new lane will begin immediately downstream from
the Main Street EB off-ramp in Marin County and terminate on the Contra Costa County side of the RSR Bridge,
slightly downstream of the Marine Street/East Standard Avenue EB off-ramp in Richmond. The Bridge portion of the
third lane on the lower deck will operate during peak hours only (as part of the pilot project). The exact hours of
operation of the lane will be outlined in the Project Report. The off-Bridge portion of the third lane will operate 24
hours a day, 7 days per week. Electronic and static signs will be used to operate and manage the lane during the hours
of operations and are included in the project description below. The third travel lane on the RSR Bridge is part of a
pilot project with Project Element 3, which will run for the duration of four years and is intended to test and evaluate the
performance and use of the third travel lane. After four years, the third lane on the RSR Bridge will be evaluated to
determine if it is to remain a peak period use lane (PPUL), be converted to a full-time use lane, or return to function as a
shoulder. All other constructed components of Project Element 1 would be permanent.

Project Element 2 – Bicycle/Pedestrian Path in Contra Costa County
The proposed Class I bi-directional bicycle and pedestrian path in Contra Costa County would be constructed along the
north side of westbound (WB) I-580 from the Marine Street interchange in Contra Costa County to Stenmark Drive
(formerly Western Drive) and the Toll Plaza where it would then connect to Project Element 3. The Class I bi-
directional bicycle and pedestrian path would be implemented along the existing WB I-580 and Stenmark Drive
shoulders and would replace the existing one-way Class III bicycle lanes on both EB and WB I-580 between Marine
Street and the Toll Plaza. The proposed bi-directional bicycle and pedestrian path would be separated from vehicle
traffic by a continuous concrete barrier.

Project Element 3 – Bicycle/Pedestrian Path on RSR Bridge and Related Connections to RSR Bridge (Pilot Project)
Project Element 3 includes the continuation of the proposed Class I bi-directional bicycle and pedestrian path from the
Stenmark Drive off-ramp to East Francisco Boulevard. The portion of the bi-directional bicycle and pedestrian path
from Stenmark Drive to the Main Street off-ramp would be part of the pilot project that would run for four years,
intended to evaluate the performance and use of a bicycle and pedestrian path on the RSR Bridge. After four years, the
bi-directional bicycle and pedestrian path on the RSR Bridge may be made permanent, or may return to functioning as a
shoulder. All other portions of the bike path would be permanent. Bicycle and pedestrian access improvements are also
included in this project element to improve multimodal circulation and connections to the RSR Bridge.
                    Project Assessment Form for PM 2.5 Interagency Consultation


Type of Project: Bridge Expansion

County           Narrative Location/Route & Post miles
Contra Costa     Contra Costa PM 4.98/7.79; Marin PM 0.0/3.16
and Marin
                 Caltrans Projects – EA#     04-2J6800
Lead Agency: Bay Area Toll Authority (BATA)
Contact Person                 Phone#                     Fax#                      Email
Chris Lillie                   (510) 817-5737             (510) 817-5848            CLillie@mtc.ca.gov
Federal Action for which Project-Level PM Conformity is Needed (check appropriate box)
           Categorical
                                 EA or                 FONSI or Final             PS&E or
   X       Exclusion                                                                                      Other
           (NEPA)                Draft EIS             EIS                        Construction
Scheduled Date of Federal Action: 04/20/2016
NEPA Delegation – Project Type (check appropriate box)

    Section 326 – Categorical Exclusion                        X    Section 327 – Non-Categorical Exclusion

Current Programming Dates
                     PE/Environmental                        ENG                        ROW                  CON
    Start                  05/2014                          05/2015                    05/2014              10/2016
    End                    08/2016                          09/2016                    06/2017              10/2017
Project Purpose and Need (Summary):

Purpose:
       Reduce congestion and travel time on eastbound (EB) Interstate 580 (I-580)/Richmond-San Rafael (RSR)
         Bridge;
       Provide pedestrian and bicycle travel along the I-580/RSR Bridge corridor.
Need:
Congestion and Delay – Regional growth and local development in Marin County has resulted in significant traffic
increases on eastbound I-580 and the RSR Bridge approach during evening peak commute periods. During evening
peak periods, this results in significant traffic delays along eastbound Sir Francis Drake Boulevard, and US 101
northbound (NB) south of Sir Francis Drake exit, with unacceptable level of service conditions occurring at the
intersections of Bellam Boulevard/I-580 eastbound ramps, US 101 northbound ramps/Sir Francis Drake Boulevard,
Larkspur Landing Circle (west)/Sir Francis Drake Boulevard, Larkspur Landing Circle (east)/Sir Francis Drake
Boulevard, San Quentin Gates/Sir Francis Drake Boulevard, Anderson Drive/Sir Francis Drake Boulevard, and Main
Street/I-580 EB ramps. Because substantial growth is projected to occur in this region, there is a need to improve and
expand eastbound bridge capacity to reduce and avoid additional traffic congestion and delay during peak commute
hours.
Accessibility for Bicyclists and Pedestrians – The current lack of bicycle and pedestrian facilities across the RSR
Bridge represents a major gap in the planned 500-mile Bay Trail, with sections of the Bay Trail adjoining the bridge on
both sides. Overall, an estimated 37.9 million annual trips were made on the existing Bay Trail in 2005, making it one
of the most heavily used recreational and non-motorized transportation corridors in the region; however, there is
currently no access available over the RSR Bridge.
                     PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation



Surrounding Land Use/Traffic Generators (especially effect on diesel traffic)
I-580 is a 4-lane separated freeway. The Richmond-San Rafael Bridge is a combined bridge with a portion of the bridge
a double deck design. The surrounding area is a mixture of open land, bay, residential, industrial and commercial land
uses. At the east end of the project is the Chevron docks and refinery, at the west end of the project, there is a mixture of
residential, commercial and open land. The primary traffic through the project area is commuters traveling to and from
Contra Costa and Marin Counties.
                      Project Assessment Form for PM 2.5 Interagency Consultation


Brief summary of assumptions and methodology used for conducting analysis
The Annual Growth calculations were derived from the Contra Costa Transportation Authority Travel Demand Model
Volumes. The AADT and truck percentages are taken from the 2014 Caltrans Traffic Volumes Book.


Opening Year: If facility is a highway or street, Build and No Build LOS, AADT, % and # trucks, truck AADT of proposed
facility
                                            2020: I-580 Richmond San Rafael Bridge
              Scenario                   AADT                   Truck AADT                   LOS (Peak Period)
              No Build                   76,792                 5,506 (6.9%)                 LOS F
              Build                      76,792                 5,506 (6.9%)                 LOS C

RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is a highway or street, Build and No Build LOS, AADT, % and # trucks, truck
AADT of proposed facility
                                            2040: I-580 Richmond San Rafael Bridge
              Scenario                   AADT                   Truck AADT                   LOS (Peak Period)
              No Build                   90,911                 6,273 (6.9%)                 LOS F
              Build                      90,911                 6,273 (6.9%)                 LOS D

ADT forecasts provide by Fehr & Peers and were based on the Contra Costa Transportation Authority Travel Demand Model
Volumes.
Opening Year: If facility is an interchange(s) or intersection(s), Build and No Build cross-street AADT, % and # trucks,
truck AADT
N/A


RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is an interchange (s) or intersection(s), Build and No Build cross-street AADT, %
and # trucks, truck AADT
N/A

Opening Year: If facility is a bus, rail or intermodal facility/terminal/transfer point, # of bus arrivals for Build and No Build,
% and # of bus arrivals will be diesel buses

Not Applicable; see above for highway facility

RTP Horizon Year / Design Year: If facility is a bus, rail or intermodal facility/terminal/transfer point, # of bus arrivals for
Build and No Build, % and # of bus arrivals will be diesel buses

Not Applicable; see above for highway facility

Describe potential traffic redistribution effects of congestion relief

By converting the existing shoulders to a third lane that will be open during the peak period, traffic will be allowed to
move through the project area with less delay.
                     PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation


Comments/Explanation/Details
The proposed project is within a nonattainment area for federal PM2.5 standards. According to 40 CFR Part 93, a hot
spot analysis is required for conformity purposes. EPA only requires a qualitative hot spot analyses for all projects that
are listed in Section 93.123(b) (1). There are five types or categories of projects qualify as a Project of Air Quality
Concern (POAQC). The following discussion evaluates whether the proposed project falls into any of these five
POAQC categories.
The project does qualify as a POAQC for the following reasons:
1. The project would not have a significant number of or increase in the number of diesel vehicles (40 CFR Section
93.123(b)(1).
     Transportation conformity guidance coauthored by the EPA and FHWA define a significant volume of diesel
      truck traffic as facilities within greater than 125,000 annual average daily traffic (AADT) and 8 percent or
      more of such AADT as diesel truck traffic or approximately 10,000 trucks. This is not a hard rule but rather a
      relative guidance; projects should be evaluated on a case by case basis. The latest truck counts for I-580 in the
      project vicinity show that truck traffic constitutes 6.9 percent of the total AADT, which is 76,000 AADT1. The
      average daily number of trucks would be 5,244, well below the approximate 10,000 trucks stated above.
     The percentage of trucks will remain the same with the project as without the project. The traffic volumes will
      increase due growth in the area, but there will be no change in the truck percentages, and therefore, would not
      result in a significant increase in the number of diesel vehicles.
2. The maximum percentage of diesel vehicles in the project area is 5 percent and would not increase as a result of the
project (40 CFR 93.123(b)(1)(ii).
     As described above under “Describe potential traffic redistribution effects of congestion relief,” the project
      would improve operations during the peak periods and would reduce congestion and delay at on the bridge
      within the project alignment, however, the project would not result in substantial redistribution of traffic or
      changes in the percentage of truck trips through the site.1
3. The project is not a new bus or rail terminal or transfer point (40 CFR Section 93.123(b)(1)(iii).
4. The project is not an expansion of an existing bus or rail terminal or transfer point (40 CFR Section 93.123(b)(1)(iv).
5. There is no state implementation plan for PM2.5, and therefore, the project is not identified in an implementation
plan as an area of potential violation (40 CFR Section 93.123(b)(1)(v).
     On January 9, 2013, EPA issued a final rule to determine that the Bay Area attains the 24-hour PM2.5 national
      standard. This EPA rule suspends key SIP requirements as long as monitoring data continues to show that the
      Bay Area attains the standard. Despite this EPA action, the Bay Area will continue to be designated as “non-
      attainment” for the national 24-hour PM2.5 standard until such time as the Air District submits a
      “redesignation request” and a “maintenance plan” to EPA and EPA approves the proposed redesignation.
The proposed project is in a PM 2.5 Non-Attainment Area and is subject to review project-level conformity review by
the Air Quality Task Force.

References Cited:
1
2014 annual Average Daily Truck Traffic on the California State Highway System and the 2014 Traffic Volumes on
California State Highway,(http://Traffic-counts.dot.ca.gov
 Project Assessment Form for PM 2.5 Interagency Consultation




Figure 1: Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Concrete Trestle section, facing west.




      Figure 2: Eastbound I-580 in Contra Costa County, facing west.
      PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for Interagency Consultation




Figure 3: Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Cross Section after improvements, facing west.




                            Figure 4: Project Area Map
Project Assessment Form for PM 2.5 Interagency Consultation
                 Air Quality Conformity Task Force Meeting
                              February 25, 2016

                      Claremont Conference Room, 2nd Floor, MTC
                                  11:00am-12:30pm

1. Introductions
   Kristen Johnson – HNTB
   Chadi Chazbek – HNTB
   Chris Lillie – BATA
   Scott Lane – MTC Policy Advisory Council
   Dick Fahey – Caltrans
   Darryl Yip – MTC
   Adam Crenshaw – MTC
   Harold Brazil – MTC

   On the phone:
   Amir Fanai – BAAQMD
   Andrea Gordon – BAAQMD
   Ginger Vagenas – EPA
   Rodney Tavitas – Caltrans
   Ted Mately – FTA

2. Presentation of Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvement Project (Chadi Chazbek,
   HNTB)

3. Task Force Questions/Comments
      1) Dick Fahey, MTC
               i. Project Assessment Form: Surrounding Land Use, Traffic Generators –
                  Revise “The primary traffic through the project area is commuters traveling to
                  and from San Francisco” to “…to and from Marin and Contra Costa Counties”.
              ii. HNTB agreed to incorporate these comments. Comment misstated. Main traffic
                  is from Marin to Contra Costa Counties. Traffic from San Francisco represents
                  less than 10% of traffic over the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge.

       2) Scott Lane, MTC Policy Advisory Council
               i. Has the project team evaluated the possibility of converting the third-lane to an
                  HOV/carpool lane? If not, could the project team still evaluate the potential for a
                  carpool lane during the evaluation of the pilot project? Induced demand may be a
                  potential impact from adding additional capacity. Carpool lanes address regional
                  goals for reduction in single-occupancy vehicle trips.
              ii. Are there other shoulder running lane pilot projects in the state?
             iii. HNTB noted that there is one other similar project on I-805. MTC stated that
                  early discussions considered HOV lanes, but the relatively short segment is not
                  substantial enough to contribute to a large shift in driver behavior. Revisiting
                  high occupancy vehicle lanes may be a consideration. HNTB added that HOV
                  lane infrastructure should be connected a larger network.


                                                                                                    1
           3) Darrell Yip, MTC
                  i. What are the on-ramp and off-ramp access points?
                 ii. HNTB described on-ramp access at Sir Francis Drake and Main Street.

           4) Ginger Vagenas, EPA
                   i. Project Assessment Form: Comments/Explanations/Details – Revise Section
                      1 to reflect that the EPA/FHWA truck AADT threshold is not a hard line rule for
                      truck volumes. Truck volumes relative to the threshold are evaluated on a case-
                      by-case basis.
                  ii. Project Assessment Form: Comments/Explanations/Details – Revise Section
                      5 to reflect that the Bay Area is still non-attainment zone for PM2.5, despite the
                      2013 EPA final rule. The project is still subject to regional air conformity review
                      processes including Task Force consultation. The word therefore should be
                      removed.
                 iii. HNTB agreed to incorporate these comments.

           5) Rodney Tavitas, Caltrans
                  i. Project Assessment Form - Language in Sections 1-5 should be revised to
                     reflect 2015 EPA PM2.25 Guidance. Current language reflects 2006 EPA
                     Guidance.
                 ii. HNTB agreed to incorporate these comments.

           6) Harold Brazil, MTC
                  i. Please comment on preparation of Air Quality Report and findings. Was a PM2.5
                     analysis conducted for the report?
                 ii. HNTB confirmed that PM2.5 and CO analyses were conducted, and traffic
                     analyses were used to determine the air quality impacts. Caltrans District 4
                     completed a first round review of the Draft Air Quality Report in February 2016
                     with minor comments.

Final Action:

   1. Richmond-San Rafael Bridge Access Improvement Project is not a project of air quality
      concern, by unanimous agreement.
   2. HTNB to provide revised PM2.5 Project Assessment Form for record.




                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                             40 CFR 93.126 Exempt Projects List
County     TIP ID    Sponsor      Project Name                               Project Description                                                  Expanded Description                                                                                                              Project Type under 40 CFR 93.126
 ALA     ALA110136   Union City   Traffic Signal Improvements HSIP7-04-027   HSIP7-04-027: Traffic signal upgrades at the intersections of Decoto Upgrade visibility and safety of existing traffic signals by removal of pedestal mounted signal heads, install new mast arms to   Safety - Safety improvement program
                                                                             Road/Perry Road and Whipple Road/Central Avenue.                     accommodate additional signal head installation, install new street lights on the mast arm poles and related improvements


 CC      CC-110111   CC County    Marsh Creek Road Traffic Safety            Project ID: HSIP7-04-007                                              Project ID: HSIP7-04-007                                                                                                      Safety - Safety improvement program
                                  Improvements                               Installl centerline rumble strips/stripes along Marsh Creek Road;     Construct Marsh Creek Road Traffic Safety Improvements: Install centerline rumble strips/stripes along approximately 14 miles
                                                                             Add lighting at the Deer Valley Road and Marsh Creek Road             of Marsh Creek Road from the City of Clayton to the City of Brentwood; Add street lighting and flashers at Deer Valley Road
                                                                             Intersection.                                                         and Marsh Creek Road Intersection; Also upgrade regulatory and warning signs with the new fluorescent sheeting


  SF     SF-070010   Port of SF   San Francisco Downtown Ferry Terminal      San Francisco: Downtown Ferry Terminal; Transit improvements          Improvements to transit terminal facilities including structural improvements and constructing new intermodal transfer areas, Mass Transit - Reconstruction or renovation of transit buildings and
                                                                             including new intermodal transfer areas, ferry facilities, bike/ped   ferry facilities, bike and pedestrian improvements, passenger amenities, public information, provision of emergency service   structures (e.g. rail or bus buildings, storage and maintenance
                                                                             improvements, passenger amenities and P.I. provisions.                areas, and historic preservation. Also to include adjacent connection improvements to other transit options and major         facilities, stations, terminals, and ancillary structures)
                                                                                                                                                   destinations.

  SF     SF-150017   SFDPH        SF Safe Routes to School 2017-2019 Non-    San Francisco: Citywide: Implement a pilot proposal that includes     San Francisco: Citywide: SFDPH will provide leadership on behalf of a SF Safe Routes to School Partnership to implement a        Other - Specific activities which do not involve or lead directly to
                                  Infrastruct                                innovative educational, encouragement, and evaluation activities      pilot project over two years that includes education, encouragement, and evaluation. The overall purpose of the SF Safe          construction, such as: Planning and technical studies; Grants for
                                                                             and deliverables to increase safe walking and biking by               Routes to School (SF SRTS) program is to increase safe walking and biking by schoolchildren and their families to and from       training and research programs; Planning activities conducted
                                                                             schoolchildren and their families for school years 2017-2019.         school. The purpose of the new project is to implement new pilot projects, including SRTS neighborhood task forces,              pursuant to Titles 23 and 49 U.S.C. Federal-aid systems revisions
                                                                                                                                                   neighborhood skills building and outreach events, Safe Passage corner captains program, City Streets Investigators curricula,
                                                                                                                                                   bike physical education in middle and high schools, and staff at SFUSD to implement SRTS districtwide.


 SOL     SOL050009   Dixon        Parkway Blvd/UPRR Grade Separation         In Dixon: Parkway Blvd; New roadway Overcrossing of UPRR &            In Dixon: Parkway Blvd; New roadway Overcrossing of UPRR & Porter Rd (4 lanes)                                                   Safety - Railroad/highway crossing
                                                                             Porter Rd (4 lanes)
 TO: Air Quality Conformity Task Force                                               DATE: April 28, 2016

 FR: Adam Crenshaw

 RE: Review of the Regional Conformity Status for New Projects

Staff has prepared the following information in an effort to streamline the review of the regional
air quality conformity implications of projects that staff proposes to revise or add into the 2015
TIP through current or future revisions. This item is for advisory purposes only. The inclusion
of these projects and project changes in a proposed revision to the TIP is subject to Commission
approval in the case of amendments and MTC’s Executive Director or Deputy Executive
Director in the case of administrative modifications. The final determination of the regional air
quality conformity status of these projects will be made by the Federal Highway Administration,
the Federal Transit Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency as part of their
review of proposed final TIP amendments and by the Executive Director or Deputy Executive
Director as part of their review for TIP administrative modifications.

Projects Staff is Proposing to Include in the 2015 TIP
Staff has received requests from sponsors to add six new individually listed projects and 75 new
group listed projects to the 2015 TIP. Attachment A includes a list of these 81 projects along
with the regional air quality category that staff believes best describes the projects.

MTC staff is not seeking a determination on the status of these projects for project-level
conformity purposes with this item.

J:\SECTION\PLANNING\AIRQUAL\TSKFORCE\2016\4-28-16\Draft\3a_Regional_AQ_Conformity_Review.docx
                                                                                                               Item 3a - Attachment A
County         TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor             Project Name              Project Description                            Project Expanded Description                                                         Project Type
                                                                          Proposed New Individually Listed Projects for Regional Air Quality Conformity Status Review
Alameda                6328 LAVTA                Wheels Individualized     LAVTA: Systemwide: Implement a multi-          The plan has three parts - Indivdiualized Marketing on the 10, Route 580X and        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Transportation
                                                 Marketing Program         pronged marketing program directed at key at Las Positas College. The plan includes two frequent service bus routes in              enhancement activities (except rehabilitation
                                                                           subsets of the riding public with the goal of three key corridor areas that directly serve the Dublin/Pleasanton BART               and operation of historic transportation
                                                                           converting non-users to public transit         Station. The corridors have 51,000 households within a 5 minute walk of a bus        buildings, structures, or facilities)
                                                                           passengers                                     stop. To reach these potential riders, Wheels will promote transit and other
                                                                                                                          commute alternatives through targeted, customized marketing methods called
                                                                                                                          Individualized Marketing.

                                                                                                                           Wheels and Las Positas College plan to launch a new semester pass. The
                                                                                                                           semester pass offers students and staff free rides on Wheels services during
                                                                                                                           the semester. The pass will initially be a photo ID flash pass that will be shown
                                                                                                                           to the driver upon boarding.
                                                                                                                           To market to the 8000+ targeted riders, Wheels will be developing a direct
                                                                                                                           mailer, Las Positas Express advertising and targeted digital marketing.
                                                                                                                           Wheels and Las Positas College plan to launch a new semester pass. The
                                                                                                                           semester pass offers students and staff free rides on Wheels services during
                                                                                                                           the semester. The pass will initially be a photo ID flash pass that will be shown
                                                                                                                           to the driver upon boarding.
                                                                                                                           To market to the 8000+ targeted riders, Wheels will be developing a direct
                                                                                                                           mailer, Las Positas Express advertising and targeted digital marketing.
                                                                                                                           On the 580X, to promote the new line, a direct mailing with an incentive will be
                                                                                                                           sent to residents within ¼ mile of the new route. In addition targeted
                                                                                                                           advertising will run in the Independent and at the East and West Dublin BART
                                                                                                                           Stations.




Alameda                6319 Union City Transit   Union City Transit: Single Union City Transit: Systemwide Revenue         Union City Transit will receive Clipper Card in late calendar year 2016 or early EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Perchase of operating
                                                 Point Login Terminals      Transit Vehicles: Implement Single Point       calendar year 2017. The Clipper Card transponders that will be installed on the equipment for vehicles (e.g., radios, fareboxes,
                                                                            Login Terminals, Including Equipment and       vehicles have new capabilities that previous versions have not had, including lifts, etc.)
                                                                            Programming for Clipper Card.                  integration with an operator single point login terminal. The East Bay
                                                                                                                           operators added to Clipper Card in 2015, the 101 corridor operators added to
                                                                                                                           Clipper Card in 2016, and VTA have the same version that Union City Transit
                                                                                                                           will receive and they have expressed an interest in integrating the Clipper Card
                                                                                                                           as part of the operator login process as well. Union City Transit would be
                                                                                                                           contributing to this joint effort to fund the additional equipment installation
                                                                                                                           and programming by Cubic to make this happen.

Contra Costa           6309 BART                 Concord Yard Wheel        BART: Concord Yard: Construct a wheel           Currently BART has the capacbility to re-true wheels at three different        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Purchase of office,
                                                 Truing Facility           truing facility which will house a dual-guage   locations, Daly City Yard, Richmond Yard, and the Hayward Yard. These three shop and operating equipment for existing
                                                                           wheel truing machine to service both BART       locations have a wheel-truing machine located on site to resurface flat and    facilities
                                                                           and eBART vehicle wheels.                       worn spots of the existing Revenue Vehicle wheels. This project will construct
                                                                                                                           and provide wheel truing functionality at the Concord Yard to service BART and
                                                                                                                           eBART vehicle wheels.

Contra Costa           6312 ECCTA                Non-ADA Paratransit to FR ECCTA: Systemwide: Use outreach, travel          Staff proposes to program these TPI funds to uses that would inform, train         EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Transportation
                                                 Incentive Program         training and fare incentives to move non-       and incentivize the non-ADA Dial-a-Ride user population to take fixed route         enhancement activities (except rehabilitation
                                                                           ADA paratransit users to FR service             instead. This would increase the service efficiency for both this subset of Tri     and operation of historic transportation
                                                                                                                           Delta Transit patrons as well as for ECCTA itself and reduce the demand for         buildings, structures, or facilities)
                                                                                                                           more costly, specialized service. Every passenger trip transferred from the Dial-
                                                                                                                           a-Ride service to the fixed route system saves the passenger time and money
                                                                                                                           and saves Tri Delta Transit money as well. And, it utilizes available, unused
                                                                                                                           capacity on the fixed route system.
                                                                                                          Item 3a - Attachment A
County          TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor           Project Name          Project Description                            Project Expanded Description                                                    Project Type
Marin                   6081 Novato             Vineyard Rd           Novato: Vineyard Road from Wilson Avenue       Novato: Vineyard Road from Wilson Avenue to Sutro Avenue: Perform               EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                                Improvements          to Sutro Avenue: Perform pavement              pavement maintenance, install bicycle lanes, and property owner-funded          and/or rehabilitation
                                                                      maintenance, install bicycle lanes, and        frontage improvements. ADA improvements, including accessible curb ramps
                                                                      property owner-funded frontage                 will be included within the project limits.
                                                                      improvements.
Sonoma                  6308 Santa Rosa CityBus Implementation of     Santa Rosa CityBus: Systemwide: Operating       The Reimagining CityBus project began with a system wide assessment and           EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Operating assistance
                                                Reimagining CityBus   Assistance for implementing Reimagining        analysis to evaluate current efficiencies and traffic routes. A massive            to transit agencies
                                                                      CityBus                                        community outreach component was executed as well so we could hear from
                                                                                                                     our riders. Both of these parts of the project resulted in the presentation to the
                                                                                                                     Santa Rosa City Council of three possible scenarios for new or expanded
                                                                                                                     service in Santa Rosa. The public hearing approving the final selection of new
                                                                                                                     routes and service goes before City Council in May 2016. Full implementation
                                                                                                                     will be completed by September 2016.

                                                                        Proposed New Group Listed Projects for Regional Air Quality Conformity Status Review
Alameda         VAR110001    Caltrans           SHOPP Mobility        In Hayward, at 500 feet north of Industrial In Hayward, at 500 feet north of Industrial Parkway West. Install weigh-in-        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Traffic control devices
                                                                      Parkway West. Install weigh-in-motion       motion system in both directions.                                                  and operating assistance other than signalization
                                                                      system in both directions.                                                                                                     projects
                                                                                                                  (G13 Contingency Project)
                                                                      (G13 Contingency Project)

Alameda         VAR110001    Caltrans           SHOPP Mobility        In Emeryville and Oakland, from San            In Emeryville and Oakland, from San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge Toll Plaza to EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Traffic control devices
                                                                      Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge Toll Plaza to     north of Powell Street; also in Oakland on Routes 580 and 880, at various      and operating assistance other than signalization
                                                                      north of Powell Street; also in Oakland on     locations. Upgrade/replace Transportation Management System elements.          projects
                                                                      Routes 580 and 880, at various locations.
                                                                      Upgrade/replace Transportation
                                                                      Management System elements.

Alameda         VAR110001    Caltrans           SHOPP Mobility        In and near Oakland and San Leandro, from      In and near Oakland and San Leandro, from Route 238 to Route 80. Install and EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Traffic control devices
                                                                      Route 238 to Route 80. Install and upgrade     upgrade Transportation Management System elements.                           and operating assistance other than signalization
                                                                      Transportation Management System                                                                                            projects
                                                                      elements.
San Francisco   VAR110001    Caltrans           SHOPP Mobility        In the City and County of San Francisco,       In the City and County of San Francisco, from Junipero Serra Boulevard to Lake EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.128) - Traffic signal
                                                                      from Junipero Serra Boulevard to Lake          Street. Upgrade and interconnect traffic signals.                              synchronization projects
                                                                      Street. Upgrade and interconnect traffic
                                                                      signals.
Sonoma          VAR110001    Caltrans           SHOPP Mobility        Near Vallejo, at east of Route 121. Replace    Near Vallejo, at east of Route 121. Replace Weigh In Motion (WIM) systems.      EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Traffic control devices
                                                                      Weigh In Motion (WIM) systems.                                                                                                 and operating assistance other than signalization
                                                                                                                                                                                                     projects
Various         VAR110001    Caltrans           SHOPP Mobility        In various counties, on various routes, at     In various counties, on various routes, at various locations. On-call service   EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Traffic control devices
                                                                      various locations. On-call service contract to contract to restore non-operational Transportation Management System            and operating assistance other than signalization
                                                                      restore non-operational Transportation         elements.                                                                       projects
                                                                      Management System elements.

Alameda         VAR110003    Caltrans           SHOPP Roadway         In Fremont, from south of Scott Creek Road     In Fremont, from south of Scott Creek Road to Auto Mall Parkway.                EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                                Preservation          to Auto Mall Parkway. Rehabilitate             Rehabilitate roadway.                                                           and/or rehabilitation
                                                                      roadway.
Alameda         VAR110003    Caltrans           SHOPP Roadway         In and near Fremont, from Auto Mall            In and near Fremont, from Auto Mall Parkway to Koopman Road. Rehabilitate EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                                Preservation          Parkway to Koopman Road. Rehabilitate          roadway.                                                                  and/or rehabilitation
                                                                      roadway.
                                                                                          Item 3a - Attachment A
County          TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor   Project Name    Project Description                          Project Expanded Description                                                       Project Type
Alameda         VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   Near Livermore, from San Joaquin county       Near Livermore, from San Joaquin county line to east of Greenville                EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                        Preservation    line to east of Greenville overcrossing; also overcrossing; also on Route 205 (PM 0.0/1.0) from San Joaquin county line to      etc.
                                                        on Route 205 (PM 0.0/1.0) from San            Midway Road undercrossing. Environmental mitigation for EA 3G590.
                                                        Joaquin county line to Midway Road
                                                        undercrossing. Environmental mitigation
                                                        for EA 3G590.

Alameda         VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In and near Pleasanton and Dublin, from        In and near Pleasanton and Dublin, from north of Route 84 to Alcosta             EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    north of Route 84 to Alcosta Boulevard.        Boulevard. Roadway rehabilitation.                                               and/or rehabilitation
                                                        Roadway rehabilitation.
Contra Costa    VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In Concord, from Route 680 to Route 4.         In Concord, from Route 680 to Route 4. Pavement rehabilitation.                  EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Pavement rehabilitation.                                                                                                        and/or rehabilitation
Marin           VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   Near Point Reyes Station and Olema, from       Near Point Reyes Station and Olema, from Olema Creek Bridge to north of          EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Olema Creek Bridge to north of Cypress         Cypress Road; also, near Tomales, from south of Tomales-Petaluma Road to         and/or rehabilitation
                                                        Road; also, near Tomales, from south of        south of Valley Ford Road (PM 45.0/50.5). Pavement rehabilitation.
                                                        Tomales-Petaluma Road to south of Valley
                                                        Ford Road (PM 45.0/50.5). Pavement
                                                        rehabilitation.
San Francisco   VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In the City and County of San Francisco,       In the City and County of San Francisco, from north of Lake Street to south of   EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Lighting
                                        Preservation    from north of Lake Street to south of Route    Route 101 at the McArthur Tunnel. Replace existing lighting system with LED      Improvements
                                                        101 at the McArthur Tunnel. Replace            lighting system.
                                                        existing lighting system with LED lighting
                                                        system.
San Mateo       VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   Near Pescadero, from Santa Cruz County         Near Pescadero, from Santa Cruz County Line to south of Bean Hollow Road.        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Line to south of Bean Hollow Road.             Pavement rehabilitation.                                                         and/or rehabilitation
                                                        Pavement rehabilitation.
San Mateo       VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In the cities of Burlingame, Millbrae, San     In the cities of Burlingame, Millbrae, San Bruno and South San Francisco, from EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Bruno and South San Francisco, from            Broadway to Oyster Point Boulevard. Pavement rehabilitation.                   and/or rehabilitation
                                                        Broadway to Oyster Point Boulevard.
                                                        Pavement rehabilitation.
Santa Clara     VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In San Jose, from McKendrie Street to          In San Jose, from McKendrie Street to Lawrence Expressway. Pavement              EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Lawrence Expressway. Pavement                  rehabilitation.                                                                  and/or rehabilitation
                                                        rehabilitation.
Santa Clara     VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In and Near Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, and    In and Near Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, and Palo Alto, from Foothill Boulevard to EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Palo Alto, from Foothill Boulevard to north    north of Sand Hill Road (also, in San Mateo County PM R0.0/R2.1). Pavement and/or rehabilitation
                                                        of Sand Hill Road (also, in San Mateo County   rehabilitation.
                                                        PM R0.0/R2.1). Pavement rehabilitation.

Santa Clara     VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In and near Los Gatos, Campbell and San        In and near Los Gatos, Campbell and San Jose, from Hebard Way to Route 280. EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Jose, from Hebard Way to Route 280.            Pavement rehabilitation.                                                    and/or rehabilitation
                                                        Pavement rehabilitation.
                                                                                                       (G13 Contingency Project)
                                                        (G13 Contingency Project)

Sonoma          VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In and near Windsor, Healdsburg, and           In and near Windsor, Healdsburg, and Cloverdale, from Old Redwood Highway EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    Cloverdale, from Old Redwood Highway to        to 2 miles south of Mendocino County line. Roadway rehabilitation.        and/or rehabilitation
                                                        2 miles south of Mendocino County line.
                                                        Roadway rehabilitation.


Sonoma          VAR110003    Caltrans   SHOPP Roadway   In and near Sonoma, from Vallejo Avenue to In and near Sonoma, from Vallejo Avenue to east of Leveroni Road/Napa Road. EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                        Preservation    east of Leveroni Road/Napa Road.           Pavement rehabilitation.                                                    and/or rehabilitation
                                                        Pavement rehabilitation.
                                                                                             Item 3a - Attachment A
County          TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor   Project Name      Project Description                           Project Expanded Description                                                   Project Type
Alameda         VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In various cities, on Routes 13, 61, and 123 In various cities, on Routes 13, 61, and 123 at various locations; also in Contra EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Markings
                                                          at various locations; also in Contra Costa   Costa County, on Route 123, at Eureka Avenue. Crosswalk safety
                                                          County, on Route 123, at Eureka Avenue.      enhancements.
                                                          Crosswalk safety enhancements.

Alameda         VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In various cities, on various routes, at      In various cities, on various routes, at various locations. Crosswalk safety   EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Markings
                                                          various locations. Crosswalk safety           enhancements.
                                                          enhancements.
Alameda         VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In Oakland, San Leandro, Hayward and          In Oakland, San Leandro, Hayward and Fremont on Routes 84, 92, 112, 185        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Markings
                                                          Fremont on Routes 84, 92, 112, 185 and        and 238 at various locations. Crosswalk safety enhancements.
                                                          238 at various locations. Crosswalk safety
                                                          enhancements.
Alameda         VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In Oakland, San Leandro, Hayward, Union       In Oakland, San Leandro, Hayward, Union City and Fremont on Routes 185,        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Markings
                                                          City and Fremont on Routes 185, 238, and      238, and 262 at various locations. Crosswalk safety enhancements.
                                                          262 at various locations. Crosswalk safety
                                                          enhancements.
Alameda         VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In Fremont, from north of Auto Mall           In Fremont, from north of Auto Mall Parkway to south of Fremont Boulevard at EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Shoulder
                                                          Parkway to south of Fremont Boulevard at      various locations. Highway worker safety improvements.                       Improvements
                                                          various locations. Highway worker safety
                                                          improvements.

Contra Costa    VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In and near Walnut Creek, Pleasant Hill, and In and near Walnut Creek, Pleasant Hill, and Concord, from Olympic Boulevard EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Lighting
                                                          Concord, from Olympic Boulevard to Arthur to Arthur Road. Install safety lighting.                                        Improvements
                                                          Road. Install safety lighting.

Contra Costa    VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In various cities from the Alameda County In various cities from the Alameda County line to the Solano County line; also     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Shoulder
                                                          line to the Solano County line; also on Route on Route 242, 580, and 680 at various locations. Construct maintenance         Improvements
                                                          242, 580, and 680 at various locations.       worker safety improvements
                                                          Construct maintenance worker safety
                                                          improvements

San Francisco   VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In the City of San Francisco, on Routes 1, 35, In the City of San Francisco, on Routes 1, 35, 80, 101 and 280 at various     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Markings
                                                          80, 101 and 280 at various locations.          locations. Crosswalk safety enhancements.
                                                          Crosswalk safety enhancements.

San Mateo       VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In and near Woodside, at various locations    In and near Woodside, at various locations (also Santa Clara County PM 20.4); EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Shoulder
                                                          (also Santa Clara County PM 20.4); also in    also in the City and County of San Francisco on Route 101 at San Bruno Avenue Improvements
                                                          the City and County of San Francisco on       off-ramp (PM 1.7). Construct maintenance worker safety improvements.
                                                          Route 101 at San Bruno Avenue off-ramp
                                                          (PM 1.7). Construct maintenance worker
                                                          safety improvements.

Santa Clara     VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In San Jose and Milpitas, from Route 101 to   In San Jose and Milpitas, from Route 101 to Scott Creek Road at various        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Shoulder
                                                          Scott Creek Road at various locations.        locations. Construct maintenance worker safety improvements.                   Improvements
                                                          Construct maintenance worker safety
                                                          improvements.
Santa Clara     VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   Near Gilroy, from east of Dunne Street/San    Near Gilroy, from east of Dunne Street/San Felipe Road to the Merced County EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Guardrails, median
                                                          Felipe Road to the Merced County line.        line. Place median barrier.                                                 barriers, crash cushions
                                                          Place median barrier.
Sonoma          VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In Sonoma County on Routes 12, 101, 116       In Sonoma County on Routes 12, 101, 116 and 121 at various locations; also, in EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Skid treatments
                                                          and 121 at various locations; also, in Napa   Napa County on Route 128 near Calistoga from PM 0.5 to 1.0. Place high
                                                          County on Route 128 near Calistoga from       friction surface treatment.
                                                          PM 0.5 to 1.0. Place high friction surface
                                                          treatment.
                                                                                             Item 3a - Attachment A
County          TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor   Project Name      Project Description                           Project Expanded Description                                                      Project Type
Sonoma          VAR110004    Caltrans   SHOPP Collision   In various cities on Routes 12, 101, and 116 In various cities on Routes 12, 101, and 116 at various locations; also in Marin   EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Shoulder
                                                          at various locations; also in Marin County   County on Route 101 at various locations. Highway worker safety                    Improvements
                                                          on Route 101 at various locations. Highway improvements.
                                                          worker safety improvements.

Alameda         VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   Near Castro Valley, at Route 238 Separation    Near Castro Valley, at Route 238 Separation (Bridge No. 33-0214L). Repair   EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Response          (Bridge No. 33-0214L). Repair joint seal       joint seal assemblies.                                                      improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                          assemblies.                                                                                                                feature
Alameda         VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In Oakland, at 23rd Avenue Overcrossing        In Oakland, at 23rd Avenue Overcrossing South and North (Bridge No. 33-0139 EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Guardrails, median
                                        Response          South and North (Bridge No. 33-0139 and        and 33-0149). Replace bridge railings and fence.                            barriers, crash cushions
                                                          33-0149). Replace bridge railings and
                                                          fence.
Alameda         VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa,         In Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, Solano and Sonoma Counties, on            EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                        Response          Solano and Sonoma Counties, on Routes 1,       Routes 1, 4, 12, 80, 101, 242, 580, 680, and 880 at various locations. Drought   etc.
                                                          4, 12, 80, 101, 242, 580, 680, and 880 at      conservation improvements.
                                                          various locations. Drought conservation
                                                          improvements.
Contra Costa    VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In Pittsburg, at Railroad Avenue. Drought      In Pittsburg, at Railroad Avenue. Drought conservation improvements.             EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                        Response          conservation improvements.                                                                                                      etc.
Napa            VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   Near Winters, from 1.4 miles west to 0.5       Near Winters, from 1.4 miles west to 0.5 mile east of the Solano County line;    EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Response          mile east of the Solano County line; also in   also in Solono County (PM 0.0/0.5). Clear mudslide.                              improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                          Solono County (PM 0.0/0.5). Clear                                                                                               feature
                                                          mudslide.
San Francisco   VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa         In San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara Counties, on various routes at      EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                        Response          Clara Counties, on various routes at various   various locations. Drought conservation improvements.                            etc.
                                                          locations. Drought conservation
                                                          improvements.
San Mateo       VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In Daly City, at Clarinada Avenue. Repair      In Daly City, at Clarinada Avenue. Repair slope washout and drainage system.     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Response          slope washout and drainage system.                                                                                              improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                                                                                                                                                          feature
Santa Clara     VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   Near Los Gatos, at Chemeketa Park 1.6          Near Los Gatos, at Chemeketa Park 1.6 miles north of the Santa Cruz County       EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Response          miles north of the Santa Cruz County line.     line. Repair embankment erosion with rock buttress and drainage                  improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                          Repair embankment erosion with rock            improvements.                                                                    feature
                                                          buttress and drainage improvements.

Santa Clara     VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In San Jose, at 0.2 mile north of Canoas       In San Jose, at 0.2 mile north of Canoas Creek Bridge. Repair culvert and        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Repair of damage
                                        Response          Creek Bridge. Repair culvert and sinkhole.     sinkhole.                                                                        caused by natural disasters, civil unrest, or
                                                                                                                                                                                          terrorist acts, except projects involving
                                                                                                                                                                                          substantial functiona, locational or capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                          changes.
Santa Clara     VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In San Jose, at southbound Route 280 to        In San Jose, at southbound Route 280 to southbound Route 87. Restore             EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Repair of damage
                                        Response          southbound Route 87. Restore soundwall         soundwall facilities damaged by fire.                                            caused by natural disasters, civil unrest, or
                                                          facilities damaged by fire.                                                                                                     terrorist acts, except projects involving
                                                                                                                                                                                          substantial functiona, locational or capacity
                                                                                                                                                                                          changes.
Santa Clara     VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In San Jose, at Route 101 separation; also     In San Jose, at Route 101 separation; also on Route 101 (PM 37.9/38.5).          EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                        Response          on Route 101 (PM 37.9/38.5). Drought           Drought conservation improvements.                                               etc.
                                                          conservation improvements.
Solano          VAR110005    Caltrans   SHOPP Emergency   In Fairfield, at Green Valley Creek Bridge     In Fairfield, at Green Valley Creek Bridge No. 23-0004. Repair abutment          EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Response          No. 23-0004. Repair abutment erosion.          erosion.                                                                         improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                                                                                                                                                          feature
Alameda         VAR110042    Caltrans   SHOPP Mandates    In Berkeley, from Shattuck Avenue to 7th  In Berkeley, from Shattuck Avenue to 7th Street. Upgrade curb ramps and               EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                                          Street. Upgrade curb ramps and sidewalks. sidewalks.                                                                            improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                                                                                                                                                          feature
                                                                                            Item 3a - Attachment A
County         TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor   Project Name     Project Description                            Project Expanded Description                                                     Project Type
Alameda        VAR110042    Caltrans   SHOPP Mandates   In Oakland and Berkeley, from Hiller Drive       In Oakland and Berkeley, from Hiller Drive to Claremont Avenue at various      EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                                        to Claremont Avenue at various locations.        locations. Upgrade ADA facilities.                                             improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                        Upgrade ADA facilities.                                                                                                         feature
                                                                                                         (G13 Contingency Project)
                                                        (G13 Contingency Project)
Alameda        VAR110042    Caltrans   SHOPP Mandates   In Berkeley, from Claremont Avenue to west       In Berkeley, from Claremont Avenue to west of Shattuck Avenue. Upgrade curb EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                                        of Shattuck Avenue. Upgrade curb ramps           ramps and repair sidewalks to meet ADA standards.                           improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                        and repair sidewalks to meet ADA                                                                                             feature
                                                        standards.
Alameda        VAR110042    Caltrans   SHOPP Mandates   In Oakland and San Leandro, from Plaza           In Oakland and San Leandro, from Plaza Drive to 55th Avenue; also in Contra     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                                        Drive to 55th Avenue; also in Contra Costa       Costa County, in El Cerrito on Route 123 (PM 0.18/0.29) and in Pleasant Hill on improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                        County, in El Cerrito on Route 123 (PM           Route 680 (PM 16.85), at various locations. Reinstall and/or upgrade existing feature
                                                        0.18/0.29) and in Pleasant Hill on Route 680     curb ramps and sidewalks to ADA standards.
                                                        (PM 16.85), at various locations. Reinstall
                                                        and/or upgrade existing curb ramps and
                                                        sidewalks to ADA standards.

San Mateo      VAR110042    Caltrans   SHOPP Mandates   Near Redwood City, north of Edgewood          Near Redwood City, north of Edgewood Road; also on Route 84 from                  EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                                        Road; also on Route 84 from Hildebrand        Hildebrand Road to north of La Honda Creek Bridge (PM 9.4/10.0). Stabilize        etc.
                                                        Road to north of La Honda Creek Bridge (PM soil and erosion control to mitigate for storm water quality.
                                                        9.4/10.0). Stabilize soil and erosion control
                                                        to mitigate for storm water quality.

Santa Clara    VAR110042    Caltrans   SHOPP Mandates   In Cupertino, Sunnyvale and Mountain             In Cupertino, Sunnyvale and Mountain View, from Stevens Creek Boulevard to EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                                        View, from Stevens Creek Boulevard to            Route 101; also in various cities, on Route 80 (PM 2.5/8.0), at various         improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                        Route 101; also in various cities, on Route      locations. Install and/or upgrade existing curb ramps and pedestrian facilities feature
                                                        80 (PM 2.5/8.0), at various locations. Install   to ADA standards.
                                                        and/or upgrade existing curb ramps and
                                                        pedestrian facilities to ADA standards.

Sonoma         VAR110042    Caltrans   SHOPP Mandates   Near Monte Rio and Cloverdale, on Routes         Near Monte Rio and Cloverdale, on Routes 116 and 128; also in Marin County, EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                                        116 and 128; also in Marin County, on            on Route 101, at 0.4 mile north of Sir Francis Drake Boulevard (PM 9.25).   etc.
                                                        Route 101, at 0.4 mile north of Sir Francis      Stabilized soil and erosion control to mitigate for storm water quality.
                                                        Drake Boulevard (PM 9.25). Stabilized soil
                                                        and erosion control to mitigate for storm
                                                        water quality.

Alameda        VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge     Near Livermore, near Greenville Road at          Near Livermore, near Greenville Road at Greenville Overhead Bridge No. 33-     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                       Preservation     Greenville Overhead Bridge No. 33-0121R.         0121R. Rehabilitate westbound structure.                                       pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                        Rehabilitate westbound structure.                                                                                               additional tavel lanes)

Alameda        VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge     In Fremont, from 0.5 mile south to 0.5 mile In Fremont, from 0.5 mile south to 0.5 mile north of Patterson Slough Bridge        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                       Preservation     north of Patterson Slough Bridge No. 33-    No. 33-0250 (PM 11.8). Bridge rehabilitation.                                       pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                        0250 (PM 11.8). Bridge rehabilitation.                                                                                          additional tavel lanes)
                                                                                                    (G13 Contingency Project)
                                                        (G13 Contingency Project)

Alameda        VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge     Near Sunol, at Arroyo De La Laguna Bridge        Near Sunol, at Arroyo De La Laguna Bridge No. 33-0043. Bridge scour            EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Guardrails, median
                                       Preservation     No. 33-0043. Bridge scour mitigation and         mitigation and bridge rail upgrade.                                            barriers, crash cushions
                                                        bridge rail upgrade.
Contra Costa   VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge     In Richmond, at Stege Drain Bridge No. 28-       In Richmond, at Stege Drain Bridge No. 28-0091. Bridge rehabilitation.         EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                       Preservation     0091. Bridge rehabilitation.                                                                                                    pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                                                                                                                                                        additional tavel lanes)
                                                                                          Item 3a - Attachment A
County          TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor   Project Name   Project Description                           Project Expanded Description                                                     Project Type
Napa            VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   Near Napa, at Capell Creek Bridge No. 21-      Near Napa, at Capell Creek Bridge No. 21-0064. Bridge rehabilitation.           EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                        Preservation   0064. Bridge rehabilitation.                                                                                                   pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                                                                                                                                                      additional tavel lanes)
Napa            VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   Near Calistoga, at Garnett Creek Bridge No. Near Calistoga, at Garnett Creek Bridge No. 21-0005. Bridge preventative           EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                        Preservation   21-0005. Bridge preventative maintenance. maintenance.                                                                         pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                                                                                                                                                      additional tavel lanes)
Napa            VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   In and near Saint Helena and Calistoga, at     In and near Saint Helena and Calistoga, at Mill Creek Bridge No. 21-0056,       EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                        Preservation   Mill Creek Bridge No. 21-0056, Garnett         Garnett Creek Branch Bridge No. 21-0111, and No Name Creek Bridge No. 21-       pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                       Creek Branch Bridge No. 21-0111, and No        0100. Bridge preventive maintenance.                                            additional tavel lanes)
                                                       Name Creek Bridge No. 21-0100. Bridge
                                                       preventive maintenance.

San Francisco   VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   In the City and County of San Francisco, at    In the City and County of San Francisco, at the Central Viaduct (No. 34-0077)   EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Preservation   the Central Viaduct (No. 34-0077) from         from south of 17th Street to S. Van Ness Avenue ; also, on Route 80 at the      improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                       south of 17th Street to S. Van Ness Avenue ;   Bayshore Viaduct (No. 34-0088) from Route 101 to 4th Street (PM 3.9/4.8).       feature
                                                       also, on Route 80 at the Bayshore Viaduct      Paint superstructure steel members.
                                                       (No. 34-0088) from Route 101 to 4th Street
                                                       (PM 3.9/4.8). Paint superstructure steel
                                                       members.


Santa Clara     VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   In various cities, on Routes 101 and 237 at    In various cities, on Routes 101 and 237 at various locations. Bridge rail      EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Guardrails, median
                                        Preservation   various locations. Bridge rail upgrade at 8    upgrade at 8 locations.                                                         barriers, crash cushions
                                                       locations.
                                                                                                  (G13 Contingency Project)
                                                       (G13 Contingency Project)
Santa Clara     VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   In San Jose, at Bird Avenue Overcrossing   In San Jose, at Bird Avenue Overcrossing Bridge No. 37-0267 (PM R2.78); also        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                        Preservation   Bridge No. 37-0267 (PM R2.78); also in Los in Los Altos Hills at Arastradero Road Undercrossing Bridge No. 37-0251 L/R         pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                       Altos Hills at Arastradero Road            (PM 17.8). Bridge seismic restoration.                                              additional tavel lanes)
                                                       Undercrossing Bridge No. 37-0251 L/R (PM
                                                       17.8). Bridge seismic restoration.

Santa Clara     VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   In various cities on various routes at         In various cities on various routes at Saratoga Creek Bridge, Carnadero Creek   EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                        Preservation   Saratoga Creek Bridge, Carnadero Creek         Bridge, San Francisco Creek Bridge, San Tomas Aquino Creek Bridge, and          pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                       Bridge, San Francisco Creek Bridge, San        Bodfish Creek Bridge. Bridge preventative maintenance.                          additional tavel lanes)
                                                       Tomas Aquino Creek Bridge, and Bodfish
                                                       Creek Bridge. Bridge preventative
                                                       maintenance.
Solano          VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   In Vallejo, from Magazine Street               In Vallejo, from Magazine Street Overcrossing (No. 23-0066) to Redwood          EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Preservation   Overcrossing (No. 23-0066) to Redwood          Street Overcrossing (No. 23-0114). Increase vertical clearance at six           improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                       Street Overcrossing (No. 23-0114). Increase overcrossing structures.                                                           feature
                                                       vertical clearance at six overcrossing
                                                       structures.
Solano          VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   Near Fairfield, at Suisun Creek Bridge No. 23- Near Fairfield, at Suisun Creek Bridge No. 23-0007. Scour mitigation.          EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Projects that correct,
                                        Preservation   0007. Scour mitigation.                                                                                                       improve, or eliminate a hazardous location or
                                                                                                                                                                                     feature
Solano          VAR110044    Caltrans   SHOPP Bridge   In and near Vallejo, Dixon and Vacaville, at   In and near Vallejo, Dixon and Vacaville, at Route 80/29 Separation Bridge No. EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                        Preservation   Route 80/29 Separation Bridge No. 23-          23-0087, McCune Creek Bridge No. 23-0084 L/R and Horse Creek Bridge No. 23- pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                                       0087, McCune Creek Bridge No. 23-0084          0077 L. Bridge preventative maintenance.                                       additional tavel lanes)
                                                       L/R and Horse Creek Bridge No. 23-0077 L.
                                                       Bridge preventative maintenance.
                                                                                                           Item 3a - Attachment A
County         TIP ID/FMS ID Sponsor           Project Name              Project Description                          Project Expanded Description                                                   Project Type
Contra Costa   VAR110045     Pinole            BRIDGE NO. 28C0062,   Replace existing four-lane bridge with a         Replace existing four-lane bridge with a new four-lane bridge                  EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                               SAN PABLO AVE, OVER   new four-lane bridge                                                                                                            pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                               BNSF RY AND AMTRAK,                                                                                                                                   additional tavel lanes)
                                               JUST W/O HERCULES AVE

Contra Costa   VAR110045     Pleasant Hill     BRIDGE NO. PM00141,       See Caltrans Local Assistance HBP website    See Caltrans Local Assistance HBP website for backup list of projects          EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                               Bridge Preventive         for backup list of projects                                                                                                 pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                               Maintenance Program                                                                                                                                   additional tavel lanes)
                                               (BPMP) various bridges in
                                               the City of Pleasant Hill

Contra Costa   VAR110045     San Pablo         BRIDGE NO. 28C0057,       Replace existing 6-lane bridge with a new 6- Replace existing 6-lane bridge with a new 6-lane bridge                        EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                               SAN PABLO AVE OVER        lane bridge                                                                                                                 pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                               SAN PABLO CREEK, AT                                                                                                                                   additional tavel lanes)
                                               ROAD 20
Contra Costa   VAR110045     San Pablo         BRIDGE NO. 28C0326,       Preventive maintenance to include deck       Preventive maintenance to include deck methacrylate and joint replacement      EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Pavement Resurfacing
                                               GIANT HWY OVER SAN        methacrylate and joint replacement work      work                                                                           and/or rehabilitation
                                               PABLO CREEK, AT PARR
                                               BLVD
Marin          VAR110045     Ross              BRIDGE NO. 27C0050, SIR   Bridge Rehabilitation. Widen existing two-   Bridge Rehabilitation. Widen existing two-lane bridge to current standards     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                               FRANCIS DRAKE, OVER       lane bridge to current standards (non-       (non-capacity increasing)                                                      pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                               CORTE MADERA CREEK,       capacity increasing)                                                                                                        additional tavel lanes)
                                               3.0 MI E OF SR 101

Marin          VAR110045     Ross              BRIDGE NO. 27C0072,       Bridge rehabilitation Widen existing two-    Bridge rehabilitation Widen existing two-lane bridge to current standards (non- EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                               GLENWOOD AVE, OVER        lane bridge to current standards (non-       capacity increasing)                                                            pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                               ROSS CREEK, IN THE CITY   capacity increasing)                                                                                                         additional tavel lanes)
                                               OF ROSS
Marin          VAR110045     Ross              BRIDGE NO. 27C0078,       Bridge Rehabilitation. Widen existing two-   Bridge Rehabilitation. Widen existing two-lane bridge to current standards     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                               SHADY LANE, OVER ROSS     lane bridge to current standards (non-       (non-capacity increasing)                                                      pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                               CREEK, NEAR LOCUST ST     capacity increasing)                                                                                                        additional tavel lanes)

Marin          VAR110045     Ross              BRIDGE NO. 27C0149,       Bridge Rehabilitation. Widen existing two-   Bridge Rehabilitation. Widen existing two-lane bridge to current standards     EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Widening narrow
                                               NORWOOD AVE, OVER         lane bridge to current standards (non-       (non-capacity increasing)                                                      pavements or reconstructing bridges (no
                                               ROSS CREEK, 0.1 MI N      capacity increasing)                                                                                                        additional tavel lanes)
                                               SHADY LN IN ROSS
Various        VAR130001     Caltrans          SHOPP Roadside            In various cities, from Route 1 to Route 101; In various cities, from Route 1 to Route 101; also in Alameda, Marin, Napa, and EXEMPT (40 CFR 93.126) - Planting, Landscaping,
                                               Preservation              also in Alameda, Marin, Napa, and Sonoma Sonoma counties, on various routes, at various locations. Advance banking            etc.
                                                                         counties, on various routes, at various       credits for environmental mitigation. Financial Contribution Only (FCO).
                                                                         locations. Advance banking credits for
                                                                         environmental mitigation. Financial
                                                                         Contribution Only (FCO).

J:\SECTION\PLANNING\AIRQUAL\TSKFORCE\2016\4-28-16\Draft\[3a_Attachment-A_List_of_Proposed_New_Projects_4-28-16.xlsx]Sheet1
    TO: Air Quality Conformity Task Force                                             DATE: April 15, 2016

    FR: Harold Brazil                                                                   W.I.:

    RE: Approach to Conformity Analysis for the Draft 2017 Transportation Improvement Program and
        Plan Bay Area

MTC staff is developing the draft 2017 Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) and Plan Bay Area
(Plan) conformity analysis and seeks the Air Quality Conformity Task Force’s review of the proposed
approach to adhere to federal conformity regulations. MTC is scheduled to release the Draft
Transportation Air Quality Conformity Analysis for the 2017 TIP and Plan Bay Area on Wednesday,
June 15, 2016. Attachment A includes a full schedule for review and approval of the conformity analysis
for the draft 2017 TIP and Plan Bay Area. Staff anticipates the revisions requiring a new conformity
analysis are primarily minor changes related to changes in project schedules that result in changes to the
analysis years.

Background
The federally required TIP is a comprehensive listing of Bay Area surface transportation projects that
receive federal funds or are subject to a federally required action or are regionally significant. MTC, as
the federally designated Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) for the nine-county San Francisco
Bay Area region, prepares and adopts the TIP at least once every four years. The TIP covers a four-year
period and must be financially constrained by year, meaning that the amount of dollars
committed/programmed to the projects must not exceed the amount of dollars estimated to be available.
The TIP must include a financial plan that demonstrates that programmed projects can be implemented.

Transportation conformity is required under CAA section 176(c) (42 U.S.C. 7506(c)) to ensure that
federally funded or approved highway and transit activities are consistent with (“conform to”) the purpose
of the state air quality implementation plan (SIP). Conformity to the purpose of the SIP means that
transportation activities will not cause or contribute to new air quality violations, worsen existing
violations, or delay timely attainment of the relevant NAAQS or any interim milestones. EPA’s
transportation conformity rule (40 CFR Parts 51 and 93) establishes the criteria and procedures for
determining whether metropolitan transportation plans, TIPs, and federally supported highway and transit
projects conform to the SIP. Transportation conformity applies to designated nonattainment and
maintenance areas 1 for transportation-related criteria pollutants: ozone, PM2.5, PM10, carbon monoxide,
and nitrogen dioxide. 2




1
  “Maintenance areas” are those areas that were initially designated nonattainment for a criteria pollutant and
subsequently redesignated to attainment after 1990. Maintenance areas have SIPs developed under CAA section
175A.
2
  See “Transportation Conformity Guidance for 2008 OzoneNonattainment Areas”;
https://www3.epa.gov/otaq/stateresources/transconf/regs/420b12045.pdf.
Approach to Conformity Analysis for the Draft 2017 Transportation Improvement Program and Plan Bay Area
April 15, 2016
Page 2


MTC is currently developing the draft 2017 TIP (FY 2016-17 through FY 2019-20), which includes both
a financial constraint analysis and an air quality conformity analysis. The draft 2017 TIP addresses the
requirements under the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST).

Ozone Requirements
On February 13, 2015, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a final rule that addresses
a range of implementation requirements for the 2008 National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS)
for ground-level ozone. The EPA set the final primary and secondary standards at 0.075 ppm on March
12, 2008.

This final rule addresses a range of nonattainment area state implementation plan (SIP) requirements for
the 2008 ozone NAAQS, including requirements pertaining to attainment demonstrations, reasonable
further progress (RFP), reasonably available control technology (RACT), reasonably available control
measures (RACM), major new source review (NSR), emission inventories, and the timing of SIP
submissions and of compliance with emission control measures in the SIP

On Oct. 1, 2015, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) strengthened the National Ambient
Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ground-level ozone to 70 parts per billion (ppb), based on extensive
scientific evidence about ozone’s effects on public health and welfare. The updated standards will
improve public health protection, particularly for at-risk groups including children, older adults, people of
all ages who have lung diseases such as asthma, and people who are active outdoors, especially outdoor
workers. They also will improve the health of trees, plants and ecosystems.

EPA will make recommendations on attainment designations by October 1, 2016, and issue final
designations October 1, 2017. Nonattainment areas will have until 2020 to late 2037 to meet the health
standard, with attainment dates varying based on the ozone level in the area.

PM2.5 Requirements
The Bay Area’s designation as nonattainment was published in the Federal Register on November 13,
2009 and the designation became effective on December 14, 2009. Nonattainment areas were required to
meet the standard by 2014 and transportation conformity requirements began to apply to the Bay Area on
December 14, 2010.

On February 8, 2013, EPA took final action and determined that the San Francisco Bay Area
nonattainment area attained the 2006 24-hour PM2.5 National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS).
This determination was based upon complete, quality-assured, and certified ambient air monitoring data
showing that this area has monitored attainment of the 2006 24-hour PM2.5 NAAQS based on the 2009–
2011 monitoring period. Based on the above determination, the requirements for the San Francisco Bay
Area nonattainment area to submit an attainment demonstration (including transportation conformity
emission budgets), together with reasonably available control measures (RACM), a reasonable further
progress (RFP) plan, and contingency measures for failure to meet RFP and attainment deadlines were
suspended for as long as the Bay Area continues to attain the 2006 24-hour PM2.5 NAAQS.

Therefore, since approved motor vehicle emissions budgets for PM2.5 are not available for use in this
conformity analysis, MTC must complete one of the two interim emissions tests:

      1. “Baseline Year Test”. Emissions for each analysis year for the “Action” are less than or equal to
         the level of emissions in the year 2008 3; or
      2. “Build/No-Build Test”. Emissions for each analysis year in the “Action” scenario are less than or
         equal to emissions from the “Baseline” scenario.

3
    See 40 CFR 93.119; http://www.epa.gov/otaq/stateresources/transconf/baseline.htm
Approach to Conformity Analysis for the Draft 2017 Transportation Improvement Program and Plan Bay Area
April 15, 2016
Page 3




Analysis Approach
MTC will review the proposed conformity approach at this April 28th Conformity Task Force meeting.
MTC will review the approach with the Conformity Task Force again when we present the draft
conformity analysis in May 2016. Key aspects of the conformity analysis are as follows:

    1. Regional Emissions Analysis: MTC will conduct a new regional emissions analysis to conform
       the draft 2017 TIP and the Plan.

    2. Latest Planning Assumptions: MTC will use the latest planning assumptions, including:

            •   The socio-economic/land use forecast Jobs/Housing Connection developed by the
                Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG). ABAG staff prepares master databases
                at the 1,405 census tract-level, and MTC staff then disaggregates these tract-level
                forecasts to MTC’s 1,454 travel analysis zone system.
            •   Updated travel demand forecasts using MTC’s Travel Model One (version 0.5), released
                in winter 2016, calibrated to a 2000 base year, and calibrated and validated against both
                year 2005 and year 2010 observed conditions with the most up to date highway and
                transit networks.
            •   VMT estimates used in the newly federally approved EMFAC2014 emission model will
                be consistent with the California Air Resources Board’s (CARB) recommended
                adjustment methods.

    3. Latest Emissions Model: MTC will apply EMFAC2014 model system to produce emission
       estimates.

    4. Emissions Budget/Interim Emissions:

            •   Ozone: MTC will use the 1-hour motor vehicle emissions budget from the 2001 Ozone
                Attainment Plan as the 8-hour motor vehicle emissions budget to demonstrate conformity
                with the 8-hour ozone standard. The ozone budget for ROG and NOx was compared to
                quantified emissions for analysis years 2020, 2030 and 2040.
            •   Carbon Monoxide (CO): MTC will use the CO motor vehicle emissions budget from
                the 2004 Revision to the California State Implementation Plan for Carbon Monoxide,
                Updated Maintenance Plan for Ten Federal Planning Areas to determine conformity
                with the CO standard. The CO budget will be compared to projected emissions for
                analysis years 2018 (the CO Maintenance Plan horizon year), 2020, 2030 and 2040.
            •   PM2.5: MTC will use the “Baseline Year Test” interim emission test to demonstrate
                conformity with the 24-hour PM2.5 standard. Consistent with EPA’s Transportation
                Conformity Rule PM2.5 and PM10 Amendments; Final Rule published in the federal
                register in March 2010. MTC will quantify emissions for both directly emitted PM2.5 and
                NOx (as the precursor to PM2.5 emissions) and for the baseline year test, emissions from
                the planned transportation system are compared to emissions that occurred in the baseline
                year for analysis years 2020, 2030 and 2040. The analysis will be carried out using
                inputs for the winter season, during which the Bay Area experiences its highest levels of
                PM2.5 concentrations. MTC will present documentation regarding the projects proposed
                for inclusion in the Build scenarios.
Approach to Conformity Analysis for the Draft 2017 Transportation Improvement Program and Plan Bay Area
April 15, 2016
Page 4


    5. Transportation Control Measure (TCM) Implementation: The motor vehicle emissions estimates
       for ROG and NOx will include the effects of TCMs A-E in the 2001 Ozone Attainment Plan.
       These TCMs are now fully implemented.

    6. Financial Constraint: The TIP must be financially constrained by year, meaning that the amount
       of dollars committed to the projects (also referred as “programmed”) must not exceed the amount
       of dollars estimated to be available. The draft 2017 TIP includes the fiscal constraint analysis. No
       financial changes are proposed for the Plan, so the Plan remains financially constrained in
       accordance with federal requirements.

    7. Interagency and Public Consultation: MTC will conduct the appropriate agency and public
       consultation for the Draft Transportation Air Quality Conformity Analysis for the draft 2017 TIP
       and Plan Bay Area.



      Attachment A: Draft Transportation Air Quality Conformity Analysis for the Draft 2017
                Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) and Plan Bay Area


 Activity                                                                        Timeline
 Conformity Task Force Reviews Proposed Conformity Approach                      April 28, 2016
 MTC Staff Conducts Technical Analysis & Report Preparation                      April-May 2016
 Discuss Draft Conformity Analysis with AQCTF                                    June 26, 2016
 Authorize Release for Public Review and Begin Public Comment                    June 15, 2016
 Period
 End of Public Comment Period                                                    July 20, 2016
 AQCTF Briefing on Responses to Comments                                         July 28, 2016
 Committee Approval                                                              September 14, 2016
 Commission Approval                                                             September 28, 2016
 Expected FHWA/FTA Final Approval of 2017 TIP and AQ                             December 16, 2016
 Conformity Analysis




J:\SECTION\PLANNING\AIRQUAL\TSKFORCE\2016\4-28-16\Draft\4a_ConformityApproach_2017TIP.docx
                               Air Quality Conformity Task Force
                                    Summary Meeting Notes
                                        March 24, 2016


Participants:
Mohammad Barati – City of Oakland                     Chris Barney – Sonoma County
Jennifer Schulte – ERM                                Transportation Authority
Shalanda Christian – Caltrans                         Ted Mately – FTA
Kevin Nguyendo – Caltrans                             Stew Sonnenberg – FHWA
Marilee Mortenson – Caltrans                          Dick Fahey – Caltrans
Ken Wheeler – Wheeler Consulting                      Darryl Yip – MTC
Liz Ellis – Town of Windsor                           Adam Crenshaw – MTC
Mona Ibrahim – Town of Windsor                        Harold Brazil – MTC
Ginger Vagenas – EPA


1. Welcome and Self Introductions: Harold Brazil (MTC) called the meeting to order at 9:35 am.

2. PM2.5 Project Conformity Interagency Consultations

   a. Consultation to Determine Project of Air Quality Concern Status

              i. Conde Lane/Johnson Street Pedestrian Improvement Project

Liz Ellis (Town of Windsor) began her presentation of Conde Lane/Johnson Street Pedestrian
Improvement project by stating that the project will realign the all-way stop-controlled
intersections to eliminate the need for intersection controls, as well as install sidewalks and new
crosswalks. Ms. Ellis went on to say that the project improves the level of service (from the
existing level of service D to level of service A) and decreases delay.

Ms. Ellis also mentioned that the project’s improvements will include:

   •   Enhanced crosswalk
   •   Pedestrian safety improvements
   •   Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacon (RRFB) at one crosswalk

Ms. Ellis also mentioned that the Conde Lane/Johnson Street Pedestrian Improvement project is
located within the Windsor Priority Development Area (PDA) and the project being constructed in
this location allows operational improvements and safety at the crosswalk.

Ms. Ellis said the project background status and schedule as follows:

   •   Project currently out to bid for design
   •   Final plans PSE to Town in September 2016
   •   E-76CON submitted to Caltrans October 2016
   •   E-76CON approved by Caltrans December 2016
                                                                                                      1
   • Construction anticipated in Spring of 2017
Ms. Ellis completed her presentation by indicating that the project will provide pedestrian safety
enhancements which will have positive impacts for (particularly) the Windsor Elementary School
students walking in the area.

The Task Force did not have any questions or comments for Ms. Ellis and Dick Fahey (Caltrans)
felt that, because of the low traffic levels in the project area, the Conde Lane/Johnson Street
Pedestrian Improvement project was not of air quality concern.

   Final Determination: With input from FTA, EPA, Caltrans and FHWA, the Task Force
   concluded that the Conde Lane/Johnson Street Pedestrian Improvement project was not of air
   quality concern.

              ii. 7th Street West Oakland Transit Village Phase II Project

Mohammad Barati (City of Oakland) began his description of the 7th Street West Oakland Transit
Village Phase II project by stating that the project would promote a roadway diet and reduce the
number of travel lanes on 7th Street in each direction from 2 lanes to one lane. Mr. Barati added
that the project will install class II bike lanes in both directions, widen the sidewalks on the north
side, construct bulbouts and upgrade all ADA ramps to new standards at all street crossings. Mr.
Barati indicated that there will be no change in traffic volume and no change in LOS and the
project will connect the neighborhoods on the west side of 7th Street to West Oakland BART
Station.

Mr. Barati went on to say the 7th Street Phase II project is the extension of 7th Street West Oakland
Transit Village project which constructed improvements in front of West Oakland BART Station
and that this project includes construction of safety improvements to benefit the pedestrian and
bicyclists on neighborhood streets in West Oakland.

Dick Fahey (Caltrans) asked how trucks access the Port of Oakland and Mr. Barati answered by
saying that trucks use Adeline for port access. Mr. Fahey then asked why the horizon year truck
traffic dropped in the build scenario (when compared to the no-build) and Jennifer Schulte (ERM)
answered by suggested that there might have been some truck re-route shift when data was
inputted in the traffic model. Shalanda Christian (Caltrans) asked which traffic model was used to
do the analysis and Ms. Schulte thought it was the Traffix modeling software. Ms. Christian also
asked what the opening year of the project was and Mr. Barati answered either year 2017 or 2018.

Mr. Fahey and Ms. Christian asked Mr. Barati and Ms. Christian to check into drop in traffic and
possible the traffic diversion modeling data (to feel more comfortable that the drop in traffic
shown was not a result of traffic being diverted. Ted Mately (FTA) and Ginger Vagenas (EPA)
agreed that this follow up step sounded good

   Final Determination: With input from EPA and Caltrans, the Task Force will defer final
   project-level conformity determination on 7th Street West Oakland Transit Village Phase II
   project until receipt of the traffic modeling data.




                                                                                                         2
   b. Confirm Projects Are Exempt from PM2.5 Conformity

               i.     Confirmation of the list of exempt projects from PM2.5 conformity
                      (2b_Exempt List 031016.pdf)

Ginger Vagenas (EPA) and Dick Fahey (Caltrans) stated that TIP ID number CC-150017 the
Rumrill Blvd Complete Streets Improvements project needed to be removed from the 2b_Exempt
List 031016.pdf list of exempt projects due to the due to the road diet component of the project.
Ms. Vagenas also asked about the exemption code/type under 40 CFR 93.126 for SM-110080 the
Alpine Road Drainage and Road Restoration project and Adam Crenshaw (MTC) indicated that the
existing code (“repair of damage caused by natural disasters,…..”) is applicable due the project’s
Emergency Relief Program source of funding, but Mr. Crenshaw said that he would follow-up and
make a confirmation of this.

        Final Determination: With input from FHWA (via email), FTA, EPA, Caltrans and MTC, the
        Task Force agreed, with the exclusion of projects CC-150017, that the rest of the projects
        on the exempt list (2b_Exempt List 031016.pdf) were exempt from PM2.5 project level
        analysis.

3. Projects with Regional Air Quality Conformity Concerns

   a.   Review of the Regional Conformity Status for New and Revised Projects

Projects Staff Proposing to Include in the 2015 TIP
Adam Crenshaw (MTC) stated that MTC staff has received requests from sponsors to add three
new individually listed projects and four new group listed projects to the 2015 TIP. Mr. Crenshaw
stated that two of the proposed new individually listed projects include elements that may not be
treated as exempt from regional-level conformity under 40 CFR 93.126 or 40 CFR 93.127.
However, staff believes that the addition of these projects to the 2015 TIP would not require an
update to the air quality conformity analysis for Plan Bay Area and the 2015 TIP. The projects are
as follows:

   1. Rumrill Blvd Complete Streets Improvements (TIP ID: CC-150017)
   2. US 101 HOV/HOT from Santa Clara to I-380 (FMS ID: 6205.00)

Mr. Crenshaw requested Task Force’s concurrence that the projects above may be deemed Non-
Exempt, Not Regionally Significant for regional conformity purposes and that the addition of these
projects to the 2015 TIP would not require an update to the Air Quality Conformity Analysis as
they would not affect the regional transportation model used in analyzing regional air quality
conformity.

On the US 101 HOV/HOT from Santa Clara to I-380 project, Shalanda Christian (Caltrans) asked if
there was currently an auxiliary lane in place and Mr. Crenshaw replied that auxiliary lanes
existing in most of the project area. Ms. Christian followed up by asking if this project served to
connect existing auxiliary lanes throughout the project and Mr. Crenshaw indicated that that was
his understanding and the project is still in the developmental phase and these exact design of the
project will be determined through the environmental process.


                                                                                                     3
Mr. Crenshaw received no other questions or comments and the Task Force concurred on this
agenda item.

4. Consent Calendar

   a. February 25, 2016 Air Quality Conformity Task Force Meeting Summary

Final Determination: With input from all members, the Task Force concluded that the consent
calendar was approved.




                                                                                              4
