            APPENDIX B

Air Quality Technical Report, 405 E. 4th
            Avenue Project
Prepared for
City of San Mateo
San Mateo, CA

Prepared By
Ramboll Environ US Corporation
San Francisco, California

Project Number
0341207A

Date
December 2, 2016




AIR QUALITY TECHNICAL
REPORT
405 E. 4TH AVENUE PROJECT
                                                                           Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                              405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                 San Mateo, California



CONTENTS

1.          INTRODUCTION                                                                             1
1.1         Project Understanding                                                                    1
1.2         Objective                                                                                2
1.3         Methodology                                                                              2

2.          EMISSIONS ESTIMATION METHODS                                                             4
2.1         Construction Emissions                                                                   4
2.2         Calculation Methodologies for Off-site TAC Emissions                                     5

3.          AIR CONCENTRATION ESTIMATION METHODS                                                     7
3.1         Chemical Selection                                                                       7
3.2         Model Selection and Parameters                                                           7
3.3         Modeled Sources                                                                          9

4.          RISK CHARACTERIZATION METHODS                                                          11
4.1         Sources Evaluated                                                                      11
4.2         Exposure Assessment                                                                    11
4.3         Toxicity Assessment                                                                    12
4.4         Age Sensitivity Factors                                                                12
4.5         Risk Characterization                                                                  12
4.6         Screening Analyses                                                                     14

5.          RESULTS FROM PROJECT ANALYSIS                                                          15
5.1         CAP Emissions                                                                          15
5.2         Risk, Hazard, and PM2.5 Results                                                        15

6.          LOCALIZED CO IMPACTS FROM MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC                                        16

7.          RESULTS FROM CUMULATIVE ANALYSIS                                                       17
7.1         Cumulative Risks and Hazards                                                           17

8.          UNCERTAINTIES                                                                          18

9.          REFERENCES                                                                             20




TABLES
Table 1:    Project Construction Phasing
Table 2:    Emission Calculation Methodologies
Table 3:    Project Construction CAP Emissions
Table 4:    Project Construction TAC Emissions by Year
Table 5a:   Caltrain Emissions Calculations
Table 5b:   Caltrain Emissions for HRA Modeling
Table 6:    Freight Train Emissions for HRA Modeling
Table 7:    Diesel TOG Speciation Profile and Carcinogenic and Noncarcinogenic Toxicity Values
Table 8:    Modeling Parameters for Construction and Railway



Contents                                          i                                    Ramboll Environ
                                                                              Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                 405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                    San Mateo, California



Table 9:     Exposure Parameters
Table 10:    Age Sensitivity Factors
Table 11:    Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Concentration at Off-site and On-site MEISRs Using
             Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator
Table 12a: Stationary Source Screening Analysis at Off-site MEISR
Table 12b: Stationary Source Screening Analysis at On-site MEISR
Table 13:    Project Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI, and PM2.5 Concentration at Off-site MEISR
Table 14:    Project Acute HI at Off-site MEISR
Table 15:    Maximum On-site Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI, and PM2.5 Concentration
Table 16:    Cumulative Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI, and PM2.5 Concentration at Off-site
             MEISR




FIGURES
Figure 1:      Project Location

Figure 2:      Project Boundary and Modeling Extent

Figure 3:      Modeled On-site Construction and Rail Sources

Figure 4a:     Modeled Off-site Sensitive Receptor Locations

Figure 4b:     Modeled On-site Residential Receptor Locations

Figure 5:      Location of Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptors




Contents                                             ii                                   Ramboll Environ
                                                                        Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                           405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                              San Mateo, California



APPENDIX
Appendix A – Construction Schedule, Equipment Usage, Emissions, and CalEEMod® Output Files
Appendix B – AERMOD Modeling Files
Appendix C – Operational Traffic Volumes
Appendix D – San Mateo Lumber Co. Modeling Documentation




Contents                                       iii                                  Ramboll Environ
                                                                      Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                         405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                            San Mateo, California



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AB2588       Air Toxics Hot Spots Program

AERMET       Atmospheric Meteorological Data Processor

AERMOD       Atmospheric Dispersion Modeling System

AQTR         Air Quality Technical Report

ARB          Air Resources Board

aREL         Acute Reference Exposure Level

ASF          Age Sensitivity Factor

BAAQMD       Bay Area Air Quality Management District

CalEEMod®    California Emission Estimator Model

Cal/EPA      California Environmental Protection Agency

CAPCOA       California Air Pollution Control Officer’s Association

CAPs         Criteria Air Pollutants

CEQA         California Environmental Quality Act

CO           Carbon Monoxide

CPF          Cancer Potency Factor

cREL         Chronic Reference Exposure Level

DPM          Diesel Particulate Matter

EMFAC2014    Emissions Estimator Model

g/s          Gram Per Second

HHDT         Heavy-Heavy Duty Trucks

HIs          Hazard Indices

HRA          Health Risk Assessment

HQ           Hazard Quotient

IARC         International Agency for Research on Cancer

lbs          Pounds

KOAK         Oakland International Airport

KSFO         San Francisco International Airport

MEISR        Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor

NED          National Elevation Dataset

NOX          Nitrogen Oxides (NO + NO2)

NSR          New Source Review




Acronyms                                  iv                                      Ramboll Environ
                                                              Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                 405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                    San Mateo, California



NWS        National Weather Service

OEHHA      Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment

PM2.5      Particulate Matter Less Than 2.5 Micrometers in Aerodynamic Diameter

PM10       Particulate Matter Less Than 10 Micrometers in Aerodynamic Diameter

ROG        Reactive Organic Gas

TACs       Toxic Air Contaminants

TOG        Total Organic Gases

TSD        Technical Support Document

USEPA      US Environmental Protection Agency

USGS       United States Geological Survey

VMT        Vehicle Mile Traveled

VOC        Volatile Organic Compounds

WHO        World Health Organization

µg/m3      Microgram per Cubic Meter




Acronyms                               v                                  Ramboll Environ
                                                                                   Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                      405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                         San Mateo, California




1.         INTRODUCTION
           At the request of the City of San Mateo, Ramboll Environ US Corporation (“Ramboll Environ”
           formerly ENVIRON International Corporation) prepared this Air Quality Technical Report
           (AQTR) to analyze criteria air pollutants (CAPs) and toxic air contaminants (TACs), as well as
           local health impacts, associated with the construction of the proposed mixed commercial and
           residential development that will be located at the northern corner of 4th Avenue and
           Claremont Street in San Mateo, California (referred to hereafter as “the Proposed Project”).
           This analysis is being performed to support the Proposed Project’s California Environmental
           Quality Act (CEQA) documentation and per the request of the City of San Mateo. This report
           comprises the complete Health Risk Assessment (HRA) documentation to satisfy City of San
           Mateo requirements for CEQA analyses. When new residential receptors are proposed near
           existing sources of TACs, the City of San Mateo (2010), through the Land Use element of its
           2030 General Plan, requires a site-specific air quality analysis to evaluate health risks to
           residents and provision of buffer distances, filters or other solutions to reduce potential
           exposures to acceptable levels.

           This report discusses the emission sources, methodology for calculating emissions, and
           methodology for calculating the health risk.

1.1        Project Understanding
           The Proposed Project is a mixed commercial and residential development that would be
           located at the northern corner of 4th Avenue and Claremont Street in San Mateo, California,
           adjacent to a railway (refer to Figure 1). The Proposed Project would include the demolition
           of two existing historic structures and the construction of a 65,937-square-foot, four-story,
           office and residential building with two levels of below grade parking providing 83 parking
           stalls. The first three floors of the building would be commercial while residents would be
           located on the fourth floor.

1.1.1      Construction
           The Proposed Project would involve demolition of two existing buildings located on the
           Proposed Project site. It would require approximately 20,000 cubic yards of excavation for
           the building foundation and two basement levels that would accommodate below-grade
           parking for vehicles and bicycles.

           The Proposed Project would be constructed in one continuous phase with both the residential
           and office component being constructed concurrently, and all construction materials
           accommodated on site.

           Construction would occur over a consecutive 16 month period, with approximately 335
           working days1 during which construction activities using off-road and on-road equipment
           would be conducted as shown below and in Table 1.

             Year 1     June – December 2017                  7 months of construction
             Year 2     January – September 2018              9 months of construction
1.1.2      Operations
           The Proposed Project would not include any stationary sources of air pollution (i.e., no
           emergency generators). Proposed Project operations would include sources of land use

1
    The construction would typically occur 5 days per week.



Introduction                                             1                                     Ramboll Environ
                                                                                   Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                      405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                         San Mateo, California



           emissions, for example on-site natural gas usage and landscaping, as well as mobile-source
           emissions from vehicle traffic. Project operations are expected to begin in September 2018
           (“Project build-out”).

1.2        Objective
           The purpose of the air quality analysis is to assess potential criteria pollutant and health
           impacts that would result from construction and operation of the Proposed Project,
           consistent with guidelines and methodologies from the Bay Area Air Quality Management
           District (BAAQMD), California Air Resources Board (ARB), California Office of Environmental
           Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA), and the United States Environmental Protection Agency
           (USEPA). Consistent with the methods recommended in those guidelines, the HRA evaluated
           the estimated excess lifetime cancer risk, non-cancer chronic and acute hazard indices (HIs),
           and fine particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5)
           concentrations associated with diesel exhaust that would be emitted by on-site construction
           activities and on-road vehicles.2

           Due to the small scale of the Proposed Project and the fact that it will not include any
           stationary sources of air emissions (i.e., no emergency generators), operational emissions
           are expected to be below CEQA thresholds and are not explicitly evaluated.

           The cumulative analysis evaluates the excess lifetime cancer risks, chronic HI, and PM2.5
           concentrations from existing known sources of air pollution that are attributable to other
           mobile and stationary sources within the “zone of influence” in addition to effects from the
           Proposed Project. In cases where new residential receptors are proposed near existing
           sources of TACs, the City of San Mateo recommends an assessment of the impact of nearby
           sources on the new sensitive receptors. Due to the close proximity of the Proposed Project to
           the adjacent railway line, an HRA was conducted to assess the impacts of off-site sources on
           future on-site residents.

           In accordance with CEQA and City of San Mateo requirements, this AQTR evaluates:

           1.   Mass emissions of CAPs from construction sources.

           2.   Excess lifetime cancer risk, chronic and acute HIs, and PM2.5 concentrations from
                construction on off-site receptors.

           3.   Excess lifetime cancer risk, chronic HI, and PM2.5 concentration from off-site sources on
                future on-site residents; and

           4.   Cumulative excess lifetime cancer risk, chronic and acute HIs, and PM2.5 concentrations
                resulting from construction and other nearby sources on off-site receptors.

           The BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines recommends analyses of carbon monoxide (CO) localized
           impact, and odor impact from the Proposed Project. Because the Proposed Project is not
           anticipated to be a potential odor source, no analysis of odor impact has been conducted.

1.3        Methodology
           The Proposed Project would have off-road and on-road-related construction emissions.
           Ramboll Environ evaluated cancer risks from TACs, including diesel speciated Total Organic



2
    All construction related emissions are assumed to be from diesel combustion.




Introduction                                             2                                     Ramboll Environ
                                                                                     Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                        405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                           San Mateo, California



           Gases (TOG) and Diesel Particulate Matter (DPM), in addition to PM2.5 concentrations.3 All on-
           road and off-road construction vehicles were assumed to be diesel-fueled and thus
           Ramboll Environ estimated DPM, speciated diesel TOG, and PM2.5 emissions only for
           construction.

           The HRA was conducted consistent with the following guidance:

            Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines (OEHHA 2015);

            BAAQMD Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local Risks and Hazards
             (BAAQMD 2012a);

            BAAQMD CEQA Air Quality Guidelines (BAAQMD 2012b);

            BAAQMD Proposed Health Risk Assessment Guidelines. Air Toxics New Source Review
             (NSR) program (BAAQMD 2016a); and

            California Air Pollution Control Officer’s Association (CAPCOA) Health Risk Assessment for
             Proposed Land Use Projects (CAPCOA 2009).




3
    For construction, DPM was evaluated for cancer risk and chronic HI and speciated TOG from diesel exhaust was
    used to estimate acute HI.



Introduction                                            3                                        Ramboll Environ
                                                                               Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                  405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                     San Mateo, California




2.          EMISSIONS ESTIMATION METHODS
            Ramboll Environ quantified CAP and TAC emissions associated with construction of the
            Proposed Project. Table 2 describes the methodologies used for calculating the construction
            emissions.

            Ramboll Environ evaluated the Proposed Project CAP and TAC construction emissions using
            the 2016.3.1 version of the California Emission Estimator Model (CalEEMod®), the land-use
            model recommended by the BAAQMD for CEQA analyses. Sources of construction emissions
            include off-gassing from architectural coating, off-road equipment exhaust, and on-road
            equipment exhaust.

            For construction, DPM was used to estimate excess lifetime cancer risk and chronic HI and
            speciated TOG from diesel exhaust was used to estimate acute HI. All DPM emissions are
            conservatively assumed to be equal to respirable particulate matter less than 10
            micrometers in aerodynamic diameter (PM10).

2.1         Construction Emissions
2.1.1       Architectural Coating
            Reactive Organic Gas (ROG) off-gassing emissions from architectural coating in CalEEMod®
            are based on default CalEEMod® square footage of materials to be coated. CalEEMod®
            assumes the volatile organic compound (VOC) content of the paint is consistent with the
            limits set in BAAQMD Regulation 8, Rule 3 (BAAQMD 2009).

2.1.2       Off-road Equipment
2.1.3       Ramboll Environ received a project-specific construction equipment list, which was input to
            CalEEMod® version 2016.3.1, as the basis for the off-road equipment emissions estimates
            (Appendix A).4 Default values were used where project-specific data was not specified.
            Emissions were calculated assuming fleet average equipment, meaning the emission factors
            used reflect the fleet predicted to be in use in the OFFROAD2011 model. Emissions were also
            based on project-specific estimates of equipment usage, fuel type, and construction trip
            generation.5 CAP emissions are presented in Table 3. TAC emissions are presented in Table
            4.

2.1.4       Construction On-road Haul Trucks, Delivery Trucks and Vans
            The worker, vendor, and hauling trip generation is based on Project-specific data as well as
            default CalEEMod® version 2016.3.1 trip generation rates (see Appendix A), for the
            Proposed Project land uses, demolition amounts, and off-haul amounts. The count of hauling
            trips for off-haul was based on the total off-haul amount in cubic yards for the Proposed
            Project. The default trip lengths in CalEEMod® were used for worker, vendor, and haul truck
            trips. The worker fleet was assumed to be 50% Light-Duty Automobiles, 25% Light-Duty
            Trucks 1 and 25% Light Duty Trucks 2 in CalEEMod®. Likewise, the vendor fleet was
            assumed to be 50% Medium Heavy Duty Trucks and 50% Heavy-Heavy Duty Trucks (HHDT)
            in CalEEMod®. Hauling trips were assumed to be 100% HHDT in CalEEMod®. The emission
            factors used by CalEEMod® for construction of the Proposed Project cover the years 2017
            and 2018, the anticipated years of construction.


4
    Project Construction Equipment List, dated October 27, 2016.
5
    Ibid.


Emissions Estimation
Methods                                                  4                                 Ramboll Environ
                                                                              Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                 405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                    San Mateo, California



          The emission factors for running emissions of criteria pollutants in CalEEMod® are from 2014
          Emissions Estimator Model (EMFAC2014). This version reflects the emissions benefits of ARB
          regulations including on-road diesel fleet rules and the Pavley Clean Car Standards. The
          model also includes updated information on California’s car and truck fleets and travel
          activity.

          For the HRA, Ramboll Environ included DPM, speciated TOG, and PM2.5 emissions from on-
          road construction-related vehicles activity within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project site
          because health risks are localized. Ramboll Environ estimated cancer risk and chronic HI
          associated with diesel-fueled construction equipment and acute HI associated with speciated
          diesel TOG as part of the HRA. CAP emissions from on-road trucks take into account total
          emissions from worker, vendor, and haul truck activity and are included in Table 3. TAC
          emissions from this source are included in Table 4.

          Emissions reported by the model were converted to units of grams of pollutant emitted per
          vehicle mile traveled (VMT) or trip using the daily VMT or trips. The methodology used to
          calculate emissions is presented in Table 2.

2.1.5     Summary of Project Construction CAP Emissions
          CAP emissions from each construction year for the Proposed Project were added and then
          averaged over the number of work days in the construction period. Table 3 provides
          construction criteria pollutant emissions by year and for the total construction period.
          Construction equipment data are included in Appendix A.

2.2       Calculation Methodologies for Off-site TAC Emissions
          Consistent with the BAAQMD CEQA guidelines and City of San Mateo land use policy, impacts
          from off-site sources within the “zone of influence” on on-site receptors and the off-site
          maximally exposed individual sensitive receptor (MEISR) were evaluated. Off-site sources
          include BAAQMD permitted stationary sources, major roadways, and the adjacent railway.
          The impacts on on-site receptors were evaluated by summing the impacts from the
          individual off-site sources. The impacts on off-site receptors include all off-site sources and
          Project construction. BAAQMD screening tools were used for BAAQMD permitted stationary
          sources and major roadways, as described in the sections below. Emissions were not
          calculated separately for these sources.

          However, BAAQMD does not have a screening tool for railways. Thus, emissions were
          estimated from the adjacent railway. Caltrain and Union Pacific trains operate on the
          adjacent railway. The methodology for calculating Caltrain DPM emissions in San Mateo
          County were provided by BAAQMD. These emissions were adjusted to account for the current
          Caltrain schedule. The emission estimation methodology is shown in Table 2. Caltrain is
          expected to convert from diesel powered trains to electric trains over time; however, for the
          purposes of this analysis emissions were not adjusted to take into account the phasing in of
          electric trains. This results in a conservative estimate of emissions for use in the HRA
          because it assumes 30 years of diesel activity although there will likely only be
          approximately 7 to 10 years based on the expected schedule for electrification. Caltrain
          anticipates that 75% of the fleet will be electric by 2021 and the fleet will be fully electric




Emissions Estimation
Methods                                             5                                     Ramboll Environ
                                                                                       Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                          405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                             San Mateo, California



              sometime between 2026 and 2029.6 The Caltrain emission calculation details are presented
              in Table 5a and Table 5b.

              The methodology used to estimate freight train DPM emissions is shown in Table 2.
              Emissions were based on ARB freight train fuel consumption index (gross ton-miles per
              gallon) for the Bay Area for 2011, assuming a 1% annual productivity increase equally 7%
              for operational year 2018.7 Freight train weight assumes two locomotives8 and 45 boxcars9
              per train, with boxcar weights set as the average of full and empty units. Distance traveled
              per trip was based on the portion of railway that is within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project.
              It was assumed that there are 6 freight trains per day (3 round trips), which is the number
              of freight trains operated daily between Santa Clara and San Francisco, as described in
              Table 6 (Caltrain 2009).




6
    http://www.caltrain.com/projectsplans/CaltrainModernization/Modernization/PeninsulaCorridorElectrificationProje
    ct.html
7
    https://www.arb.ca.gov/msei/goods_movement_emission_inventory_line_haul_octworkshop_v3.pdf
8
    http://media.getransportation.com/sites/default/files/3%20EvoSeries%20Tier%204_locomotives.pdf
9
    http://www.bnsf.com/customers/pdf/50ftF_BoxcarDiagram.pdf


Emissions Estimation
Methods                                                   6                                         Ramboll Environ
                                                                                       Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                          405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                             San Mateo, California




3.           AIR CONCENTRATION ESTIMATION METHODS
             The air toxics analysis evaluated impacts associated with excess lifetime cancer risks, chronic
             and acute HI, and PM2.5 concentrations from the Proposed Project on the surrounding
             community, as well as the impact of off-site sources on future on-site residents. The
             methodologies used were based on the most recent BAAQMD Recommended Methods for
             Screening and Modeling Local Risks and Hazards (BAAQMD 2012a).

3.1          Chemical Selection
             The excess lifetime cancer risk analysis in the HRA was based on DPM and speciated TOG
             concentrations from diesel equipment, on-road vehicles, Caltrain and freight train operation,
             and nearby stationary sources.10

             Diesel exhaust, a complex mixture that includes hundreds of individual constituents
             (California Environmental Protection Agency [Cal/EPA] 1998), is identified by the State of
             California as a known carcinogen (Cal/EPA 2016). Under California regulatory guidelines,
             DPM is used as a surrogate measure of carcinogen exposure for the mixture of chemicals
             that make up diesel exhaust as a whole (Cal/EPA 2016). Cal/EPA and other proponents of
             using the surrogate approach to quantifying excess lifetime cancer risks associated with the
             diesel mixture indicate that this method is preferable to use of a component-based approach
             because it provides a protective approach to estimating health risks. A component-based
             approach involves estimating risks for each of the individual components of a mixture. Critics
             of the component-based approach believe it will underestimate the risks associated with
             diesel as a whole mixture because the identity of all chemicals in the mixture may not be
             known and/or exposure and health effects information for all chemicals identified within the
             mixture may not be available. Furthermore, Cal/EPA has concluded that “potential cancer
             risk from inhalation exposure to whole diesel exhaust will exceed the multi-pathway cancer
             risk from the speciated components (OEHHA 2003).” These analyses were based on the
             surrogate approach, as recommended by Cal/EPA.

             There is currently no acute non-cancer toxicity value available for DPM. Thus, speciated
             components of diesel TOGs with acute toxicity values were included in the acute non-cancer
             hazard analysis. The speciation profile for diesel TOG exhaust is shown in Table 7.11

3.2          Model Selection and Parameters
             Near-field air dispersion modeling of DPM, PM2.5, and speciated diesel TOGs from Proposed
             Project construction sources was conducted using the USEPA’s atmospheric dispersion
             modeling system (AERMOD).

             Concentrations of TACs from off-site sources were also evaluated. As mentioned previously,
             off-site sources included in this analysis are BAAQMD permitted stationary sources, major
             roadways, and the adjacent railway. BAAQMD screening tools were used to estimate impacts
             from the stationary sources and roadways. Hence, these sources were not modeled and are
             not discussed further in this section. BAAQMD does not have screening tools to estimate
             health impacts from railways, so TAC concentrations at future on-site receptors and the off-


10
     Toxicity values for DPM as well as the individual components speciated from diesel TOGs from construction
     equipment as provided by the BAAQMD are included in Table 7.
11
     USEPA Speciation Profile 3161 (with the exception of acrolein, per BAAQMD guidance (BAAQMD 2016a)).



Air Concentration
Estimation Methods                                        7                                         Ramboll Environ
                                                                                          Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                             405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                                San Mateo, California



             site MEISR from the adjacent railway were estimated using AERMOD. The methodology is
             discussed in more detail below.

             The most recent version of the American Meteorological Society/Environmental Protection
             Agency regulatory air dispersion model (AERMOD, Version 1518112) was used to determine
             concentrations of DPM, PM2.5, and speciated diesel TOG at on- and off-site receptors. For
             each receptor location, the model generates air concentrations (or air dispersion factors as
             unit emissions were modeled) that result from emissions from multiple sources.

             Air dispersion models such as AERMOD require a variety of inputs including source
             parameters, meteorological parameters, topographical information, and receptor parameters.
             When site-specific information was unknown, Ramboll Environ used default parameter sets
             that are designed to produce conservative (i.e., overestimates of) air concentrations.

             Meteorological data: Air dispersion modeling applications require the use of meteorological
             data that ideally are spatially and temporally representative of conditions in the immediate
             vicinity of the site under consideration. For this analysis, meteorological data from the San
             Francisco International Airport (KSFO) National Weather Service (NWS) station for years
             2011 through 2015 were used. Upper air data was obtained from the Oakland International
             Airport (KOAK). The data were processed using the latest versions of AERMET (Version
             1518113) and associated preprocessors. A detailed analysis of monthly precipitation was
             performed in accordance with BAAQMD guidelines for developing a monthly land use profile.14

             Terrain considerations: Elevation data was imported from the National Elevation Dataset
             (NED) maintained by the United States Geological Survey (USGS). The Proposed Project site
             graded elevation was used for all on-site receptors. An important consideration in an air
             dispersion modeling analysis is the selection of rural or urban dispersion coefficients. Based
             on the urban area in which the Proposed Project site is located, Ramboll Environ used urban
             dispersion coefficients.

             Emission rates: Construction emitting activities were modeled to reflect the actual hours of
             construction, from 7 am to 5 pm. The Caltrain schedule was used to determine hours of
             operation for modeling purposes. Caltrain, Baby Bullet, and Limited-stop schedules were
             modeled separately based on 14 hours per day, 6 hours per day, and 10 hours per day of
             operation, respectively.15 In addition, freight trains were modeled assuming they could run
             during any of the hours between 8 pm and 5 am, before and after peak commuter travel
             hours.

             Emissions were modeled using the /Q (“chi over Q”) method, such that each phase had unit
             emission rates (i.e., 1 gram per second [g/s] for volume sources or 1 g/s per square meter
             [m2] for area sources), and the model estimated dispersion factors (with units of microgram
             per cubic meter per gram per second, [g/m3]/[g/s]).




12
     https://www3.epa.gov/scram001/dispersion_prefrec.htm
13
     https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/scram/metobsdata_procaccprogs.htm#aermet
14
     https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/cdo-web/
15
     The southbound Caltrain line was modeled based on 13 hours per day of operation consistent with the actual
      Caltrain schedule. Refer to modeling files in Appendix B for specific hours modeled for Caltrain, Baby Bullet,
      and Limited-stop trains.


Air Concentration
Estimation Methods                                          8                                          Ramboll Environ
                                                                                         Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                            405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                               San Mateo, California



             For acute non-cancer hazard analyses, the 1-hour maximum dispersion factor estimates for
             each receptor were used. These dispersion factors were multiplied by the maximum 1-hour
             emission rate.

             For the HRA, the annual average ambient air concentrations were determined by multiplying
             the annual average dispersion factors from AERMOD (µg/m3) by the annual average
             emission rates (g/s).

             For simplicity, the model assumed a constant emission rate for every day of the year.

             Source parameters: Source location and parameters are necessary to model the dispersion
             of air emissions. Table 8 summarizes the modeled source parameters for all construction
             sources included in the analysis.

3.3          Modeled Sources
             For construction, the duration of the construction period is anticipated to be 16 months. At
             any given time there will be multiple emission sources associated with construction
             equipment within the construction zone. The construction area was modeled as an area
             source encompassing the entire Proposed Project site. The Proposed Project boundary and
             modeling extent are shown in Figure 2. A release height of 5 meters was used, with an
             initial vertical dimension of 1.4 meters, consistent with previous analyses completed under
             the jurisdiction of BAAQMD and the City of San Mateo (see Table 8).

             The adjacent north- and south-bound railway tracks were modeled as line sources (see
             Figure 3). The release height was assume to be 5 meters (BAAQMD 2012c), the initial
             vertical dimension 1.16 meters (USEPA 2004), and the track width, including the region of
             turbulent mixing, was assumed to be 9 meters (USEPA 2012).

             Receptors: In order to evaluate health impacts to on-site and off-site receptors, receptors
             were modeled at locations within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project site using 20 meter
             resolution. Off-site receptors were modeled at a height of 1.8 meters above terrain height
             (i.e., the default breathing height for ground-floor receptors). Future on-site receptors were
             modeled using actual height of the lowest residential floor plus 1.8 meters. As discussed
             previously, maximum average annual dispersion factors were estimated for each receptor
             location. Modeled receptors are shown in Figure 2. Figure 4A shows the off-site sensitive
             receptors modeled for construction.16 Figure 4B shows the on-site sensitive receptors placed
             within the Proposed Project boundary in order to compare impacts from the Caltrain and
             freight trains at future Proposed Project residences against BAAQMD’s cumulative thresholds.

             Modeling Adjustment Factors: OEHHA (2015) recommends applying an adjustment factor to
             the annual average concentration modeled assuming continuous emissions (i.e., 24 hours
             per day, 7 days per week), when the actual emissions are less than 24 hours per day and
             exposures are concurrent with construction and operation activities occurring as part of the
             Proposed Project.




16
     Sensitive receptors were identified based on the City of San Mateo Zoning Map and a detailed review of aerial
      imagery using Google Earth. Zoning map available at:
      http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/578



Air Concentration
Estimation Methods                                          9                                         Ramboll Environ
                                                                                      Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                         405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                            San Mateo, California



            Residents were assumed to be exposed to annual construction and railway emissions
            (averaged from actual construction and railway hours17) 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
            This assumption is consistent with the modeled annual average air concentration (24 hours
            per day, 7 days per week). Thus, the annual average concentration was not adjusted and
            results are conservative.

            The AERMOD files for the Proposed Project construction and railway modeling are included in
            Appendix B.




17
     Construction is assumed to occur up to 10 hours per day for the Proposed Project. Caltrain, Baby Bullet, and
     Limited-stop trains operate 14, 6, and 10 hours per day, respectively. Freight trains were modeled assuming
     they could run during any of the hours between 8 pm and 5 am, before and after peak commuter travel hours.
     The AERMOD air dispersion model estimated annual average concentrations for each source only during the
     hours that specific source was expected to be emitting.


Air Concentration
Estimation Methods                                       10                                        Ramboll Environ
                                                                                         Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                            405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                               San Mateo, California




4.           RISK CHARACTERIZATION METHODS
             In February 2015, OEHHA released the updated Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Guidance
             Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments (OEHHA 2015), which combines
             information from previously-released and adopted technical support documents to delineate
             OEHHA’s revised risk assessment methodologies based on current science. This updated
             Guidance Manual supersedes the 2003 Guidance Manual (OEHHA 2003) that previously
             provided methodologies for conducting health risk assessments under the Air Toxics Hot
             Spots Program (AB2588). The BAAQMD has issued Draft Guidelines on adopting the OEHHA
             2015 Guidance Manual (BAAQMD 2016a); however, the 2015 OEHHA has not yet been
             formally adopted by BAAQMD. This evaluation utilized the 2015 methodology in anticipation
             of its adoption. Details of this methodology are discussed below.

4.1          Sources Evaluated
             Ramboll Environ evaluated excess lifetime cancer risks, non-cancer HIs, and PM2.5
             concentrations for the listed emission sources, which reflect the largest estimated impacts
             from Proposed Project construction.

             1.   Use of construction equipment from June 2017 to September 2018.

             2.   Construction traffic emissions, which includes worker, vendor, and material hauling trips
                  during the duration of construction activities. Project-specific trip counts were used
                  where available.18

             3.   Emissions from Caltrain and freight train operation on the adjacent rail tracks.

4.2          Exposure Assessment
             The methodology under OEHHA 2015 Hot Spots Guidelines is as follows:

             Potentially Exposed Populations: This analysis evaluated off-site resident children
             commencing at the time of Proposed Project construction as well as on-site 30-year
             residents commencing at the time of Proposed Project operations based on OEHHA 2015 Hot
             Spots Guidelines.

             Exposure Assumptions: The exposure parameters used to estimate excess lifetime cancer
             risks for all potentially exposed populations were obtained using risk assessment guidelines
             from OEHHA (2015) and BAAQMD (2016a) and are presented in Table 9.

             Calculation of Intake: The dose estimated for each exposure pathway is a function of the
             concentration of a chemical and the intake of that chemical. The intake factor for inhalation,
             IFinh, can be calculated as follows:

                                     IFinh = DBR * FAH * EF * ED * CF
                                                      AT

               Where:

               IFinh             =                 Intake Factor for Inhalation (m3/kg-day)

               DBR               =                 Daily Breathing Rate (L/kg-day)


18
     CalEEMod® default values were used for worker trips, with the exception of the architectural coating phase.
      Default values were used for hauling trips for the demolition and site preparation phases.


Risk Characterization
Methods                                                    11                                         Ramboll Environ
                                                                               Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                  405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                     San Mateo, California



            FAH             =               Frequency of time at Home (unitless)

            EF              =               Exposure Frequency (days/year)

            ED              =               Exposure Duration (years)

            AT              =               Averaging Time (days)

            CF              =               Conversion Factor, 0.001 (m3/L)

          The chemical intake or dose is estimated by multiplying the inhalation intake factor, IFinh, by
          the chemical concentration in air, Ci. When coupled with the chemical concentration, this
          calculation is mathematically equivalent to the dose algorithm given in the current OEHHA
          Hot Spots guidance (OEHHA 2015).

4.3       Toxicity Assessment
          The toxicity assessment characterizes the relationship between the magnitude of exposure
          and the nature and magnitude of adverse health effects that may result from such exposure.
          For purposes of calculating exposure criteria to be used in risk assessments, adverse health
          effects are classified into two broad categories – cancer and non-cancer endpoints. Toxicity
          values that are used to estimate the likelihood of adverse effects occurring in humans at
          different exposure levels are identified as part of the toxicity assessment component of a risk
          assessment.

          For cancer risk and chronic HI calculations, Ramboll Environ used the toxicity values for
          DPM; for the calculation of acute HI, Ramboll Environ used the toxicity values for chemicals
          in the speciation profile of diesel TOG. Toxicity values are summarized in Table 7.

4.4       Age Sensitivity Factors
          The estimated excess lifetime cancer risks for a resident child were adjusted using age
          sensitivity factors (ASFs) that account for an “anticipated special sensitivity to carcinogens”
          of infants and children as recommended in the OEHHA Technical Support Document (TSD)
          (Cal/EPA 2009) and OEHHA 2015 Hot Spots guidance (OEHHA 2015). Cancer risk estimates
          were weighted by a factor of 10 for exposures that occur from the third trimester of
          pregnancy to two years of age and by a factor of three for exposures that occur from two
          years through 15 years of age. No weighting factor (i.e., an ASF of one, which is equivalent
          to no adjustment) was applied to ages 16 and older. This approach was also proposed by
          BAAQMD in its most recent Draft Air Toxics NSR Program HRA Guideline (BAAQMD 2016a).

          As presented in Table 9 analyses conducted under the OEHHA 2015 guidance incorporate
          age groupings that align with the age breakouts discussed for the application of ASFs;
          therefore the ASFs can be applied directly to each age grouping. ASFs are summarized in
          Table 10.

4.5       Risk Characterization
4.5.1     Estimation of Cancer Risks
          Excess lifetime cancer risks are estimated as the upper-bound incremental probability that
          an individual will develop cancer over a lifetime as a direct result of exposure to potential
          carcinogens. The estimated risk is expressed as a unitless probability. The cancer risk
          attributed to a chemical is calculated by multiplying the chemical intake or dose at the
          human exchange boundaries (e.g., lungs) by the chemical-specific cancer potency factor
          (CPF).


Risk Characterization
Methods                                             12                                     Ramboll Environ
                                                                                 Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                    405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                       San Mateo, California



          The equation used to calculate the potential excess lifetime cancer risk for the inhalation
          pathway is as follows:

                                Riskinh =Ci x CF x IFinh x CPFi x ASF

            Where:

            Riskinh         =       Cancer Risk; the incremental probability of an individual developing
                                     cancer as a result of inhalation exposure to a particular potential
                                     carcinogen (unitless)

            Ci              =       Annual Average Air Concentration for Chemicali (µg/m3)

            CF              =       Conversion Factor (mg/µg)

            IFinh           =       Intake Factor for Inhalation (m3/kg-day)

            CPFi            =       Cancer Potency Factor for Chemicali (mg chemical/kg
                                    body weight-day)-1

            ASF             =       Age Sensitivity Factor (unitless)

4.5.2     Estimation of Chronic and Acute Non-cancer Hazard Quotients/Indices
          Chronic HQ

          The potential for exposure to result in adverse chronic non-cancer effects is evaluated by
          comparing the estimated annual average air concentration (which is equivalent to the
          average daily air concentration) to the non-cancer chronic reference exposure level (cREL)
          for each chemical. When calculated for a single chemical, the comparison yields a ratio
          termed a hazard quotient (HQ). To evaluate the potential for adverse chronic non-cancer
          health effects from simultaneous exposure to multiple chemicals, the HQs for all chemicals
          are summed, yielding a HI. DPM is the only pollutant evaluated for chronic non-cancer
          hazard in this HRA; therefore the HQ for DPM is the same as the overall HI.

                                                         Ci
                                             HQi     
                                                              cRELi
                                               HI        HQ    i
          Where:
                    HQi         =   Chronic hazard quotient for chemicali
                    HI          =   Hazard index
                    Ci          =   Annual average concentration of chemicali (µg/m3)
                    cRELi       =   Chronic non-cancer reference exposure level for chemicali (µg/m³)

          Acute HI

          The potential for exposure to result in adverse acute effects is evaluated by comparing the
          estimated one-hour maximum air concentration of chemical to the acute reference exposure
          level (aREL) for each chemical evaluated in this analysis. When calculated for a single
          chemical, the comparison yields an HQ. To evaluate the potential for adverse acute health
          effects from simultaneous exposure to multiple chemicals, the HQs for all chemicals are
          summed, yielding a HI.




Risk Characterization
Methods                                                  13                                  Ramboll Environ
                                                                                       Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                          405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                             San Mateo, California



                                                            Ci
                                                HQi     
                                                                 aREL i
                                                  HI        HQ     i
             Where:
                    HQi           =   Acute hazard quotient for chemicali
                    HI            =   Hazard index
                    Ci            =   One-hour maximum concentration of chemicali (µg/m3)
                    aRELi         =   Acute reference exposure level for chemicali (µg/m³

4.6          Screening Analyses
             BAAQMD provides screening tools to facilitate the review of health impacts of off-site
             sources. The tools present conservative estimates of impacts from these sources. BAAQMD’s
             roadway screening tables and stationary source tool were used in this analysis.

4.6.1        Roadway Sources
             BAAQMD’s roadway screening analysis calculator (BAAQMD 2015) was used to estimate PM2.5
             and TAC concentrations from the major roadways with greater than 10,000 vehicles per day
             within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project, consistent with BAAQMD guidance.19 The BAAQMD
             screening tool does not provide specific estimates for chronic HI.

             Per BAAQMD guidance, the cancer risk values were scaled to consider the 2015 OEHHA
             guidance. Cancer risk and PM2.5 concentration from the roadways were estimated at the
             MEISR from Project construction, in accordance with BAAQMD Guidance. Roadway screening
             health impacts are shown in Table 11.

4.6.2        Stationary Sources
             Based on a search of the most recent BAAQMD stationary source database (BAAQMD
             2012b), there are several stationary sources within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project. To
             evaluate the contribution to risk, chronic HI, and PM2.5 from these sources, the screening
             data provided by the BAAQMD, corrected for distance to the Proposed Project using BAAQMD
             scaling factors where applicable, was added to the contribution from the roadway and
             railway emissions at the off-site MEISR. Ramboll Environ relied on the BAAQMD database
             and supplemental information provided by BAAQMD. Refined modeling was conducted for the
             San Mateo Lumber Co. facility to reflect more recent emissions data provided by BAAQMD.20
             Estimated residential health impacts from existing stationary sources for the off-site and on-
             site MEISR are presented in Tables 12a and 12b, respectively. The cancer risk values from
             the stationary sources were scaled per BAAQMD guidance to consider the 2015 OEHHA
             guidance.




19
     Traffic volumes were provided by Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. and are included in Appendix C.
20
     AERMOD input and output files and BAAQMD correspondence are provided in Appendix D.


Risk Characterization
Methods                                                     14                                     Ramboll Environ
                                                                                    Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                       405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                          San Mateo, California




5.        RESULTS FROM PROJECT ANALYSIS
          This Section presents the Proposed Project construction CAP emissions as well as Proposed Project
          impact results for off-site residents and the impact of off-site sources on future off-site residents.
          Emission calculation methodologies were discussed in Section 2 above.

5.1       CAP Emissions
5.1.1     Construction Sources
          Table 3 summarizes construction emissions. As discussed above, construction emissions are
          based on default CalEEMod® tiers for all pieces of equipment. As shown in Table 3, average
          daily construction emissions are predicted to equal the following: 3.2 pounds/day (lb/day)
          ROG;11 lb/day nitrogen oxides (NOx); 0.4 lbs/day PM10 exhaust; and 0.4 lb/day PM2.5
          exhaust.

5.2       Risk, Hazard, and PM2.5 Results
5.2.1     Off-site Risks, Hazards, and PM2.5 Concentrations
          The BAAQMD 2011 CEQA significance thresholds for health risks and hazards from a project
          single source are:

                   An excess lifetime cancer risk level of more than 10 in one million;

                   A non-cancer (chronic or acute) HI greater than 1.0; and

                   An incremental increase in the annual average PM2.5 of greater than 0.3 micrograms
                    per cubic meter (μg/m3).

          As discussed above, this analysis looked at risk from the Proposed Project construction. The
          off-site risks, chronic HI, and PM2.5 concentration are shown in Tables 13 and the acute HI
          is shown in Table 14. Figure 5 shows the location of the off-site MEISR.

          The cancer risk at the off-site MEISR is 8.6 in a million. The chronic HI is 0.0053 and the
          acute HI is 0.045. The maximum PM2.5 concentration from construction would occur in 2017
          and is 0.026 µg/m3.

5.2.2     On-site Risk, Hazard, and PM2.5 Concentration
          When evaluating whether existing environmental conditions will impact future residents of
          the Proposed Project, the maximum on-site excess lifetime cancer risk, chronic HI, and PM2.5
          concentration are compared to the BAAQMD 2011 CEQA significance thresholds for
          cumulative impacts:

          •       An excess lifetime cancer risk level of more than 100 in one million;

          •       A chronic HI greater than 10.0; and

          •       An incremental increase in the annual average PM2.5 concentration of greater than 0.8
                  μg/m3.

          Table 15 shows the risks, hazards, and PM2.5 concentrations from the off-site sources at the
          maximum on-site location. The estimated cancer risk, non-cancer chronic HI, and PM2.5
          concentration from off-site sources are below the respective BAAQMD 2011 CEQA
          significance thresholds.




Results from Project Analysis                               15                                   Ramboll Environ
                                                                                Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                   405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                      San Mateo, California




6.        LOCALIZED CO IMPACTS FROM MOTOR VEHICLE
          TRAFFIC
          According to the BAAQMD’s screening criteria for CO (BAAQMD 2012a), projects are
          considered less than significant if:

          1.   The project is consistent with an applicable congestion management program established
               by the county’s congestion management agency for designated roads or highways,
               regional transportation plan, and local congestion management agency plans.

          2.   The project traffic would not increase traffic volumes at affected intersections to more
               than 44,000 vehicles per hour.

          3.   The project traffic would not increase traffic volumes at affected intersections to more
               than 24,000 vehicles per hour where vertical and/or horizontal mixing is substantially
               limited (e.g., tunnel, parking garage, bridge underpass, natural or urban street canyon,
               below-grade roadway).

          Peak hourly traffic volumes for roadways within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project were
          provided by Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. and are shown in Appendix C. The
          traffic volume on these roads is much less than 24,000 vehicles per hour. Thus, the
          Proposed Project will not increase traffic volumes at any intersection to over 44,000 or
          24,000 vehicles per hour. Therefore, the Proposed Project is less than significant for CO.




Localized CO Impacts
From Motor Vehicle Traffic                               16                                 Ramboll Environ
                                                                               Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                  405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                     San Mateo, California




7.        RESULTS FROM CUMULATIVE ANALYSIS
7.1       Cumulative Risks and Hazards
          The cumulative analysis is conducted at the MEISR identified for the Proposed Project
          construction. Results at the MEISR are compared to the BAAQMD 2011 CEQA significance
          thresholds for cumulative impacts:

          •    An excess lifetime cancer risk level of more than 100 in one million;

          •    A chronic non-cancer HI greater than 10; and

          •    An incremental increase in the annual average PM2.5 of greater than 0.8 μg/m3.

          The incremental cancer risk, chronic HI, and PM2.5 MEISR for the Proposed Project
          construction was identified as a residential location within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project;
          therefore, emissions from all identified sources within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project
          were evaluated at this single location and added to the results from the Proposed Project’s
          single source evaluation. The impacts from the Proposed Project construction are
          summarized in Section 5.2.1. As previously discussed, the off-site sources within the 1,000
          feet of the Proposed Project include major roadways, BAAQMD permitted stationary sources,
          and the adjacent railway.

7.1.1     Off-site Risks, Hazards, and PM2.5 Concentrations
          Table 16 shows the off-site resident MEISR cancer risks, chronic HI, and PM2.5
          concentrations. The total cumulative cancer risks is 30 in a million, the chronic HI is 0.082,
          and the total cumulative PM2.5 concentration is 0.76 µg/m3.




Results from
Cumulative Analysis                                      17                                Ramboll Environ
                                                                              Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                 405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                    San Mateo, California




8.        UNCERTAINTIES
          The following sections summarize the critical uncertainties associated with the emissions
          estimation, air dispersion modeling, and risk estimation components of the risk assessment.

          Estimation of Emissions: There are uncertainties associated with the estimation of emissions
          from construction equipment and traffic. Where Project-specific data are not available,
          CalEEMod® default assumptions were used. These assumptions result in a conservative
          estimate of overall construction emissions.

          Estimation of Exposure Concentrations: In addition to uncertainty associated with emission
          estimates, there is also uncertainty associated with the estimated exposure concentrations.
          The limitations of the air dispersion model provide a source of uncertainty in the estimation
          of exposure concentrations. According to USEPA, errors of ±10 percent to 40 percent are
          typical for the highest estimated concentrations due to the limitation of the algorithms
          implemented in AERMOD (USEPA 2005). Ramboll Environ’s methodologies consistently
          produce conservative results; thus predicted exposure concentrations are likely to be at or
          above actual exposure concentrations.

          Source Representation: The source parameters used to model emission sources add
          uncertainty. For all emission sources, Ramboll Environ used source parameters that are
          either recommended as defaults or expected to produce more conservative (i.e.,
          overestimation of) results. Discrepancies might exist between the actual emissions
          characteristics of a source and its representation in the model; exposure concentrations used
          in this assessment represent approximate exposure concentrations.

          Exposure Assumptions: Numerous assumptions must be made in order to estimate human
          exposure to chemicals. These assumptions include parameters such as breathing rates,
          exposure time and frequency, exposure duration, and human activity patterns. While a mean
          value derived from scientifically defensible studies is the best estimate of central tendency,
          many of the exposure variables used in this HRA under the 2015 OEHHA guidelines are high-
          end estimates. For example, although OEHHA 2015 guidance recommends assuming a
          period of time spent out of the home each day, this analysis conservatively makes the same
          24-hour daily exposure assumption as under OEHHA 2003 guidance. Additionally, it is
          assumed that residential receptors are exposed 260 days per year to Project construction
          emissions for the entire construction duration and to 350 days per year to Project operation
          sources for a total duration of 30 years. These are highly conservative assumptions since
          most residents do not remain in their homes all day, every day, for these periods of time.
          The combination of several high-end estimates used as exposure parameters may
          substantially overestimate chemical intake. The excess lifetime cancer risks calculated in this
          assessment are therefore likely to be overestimated.

          Toxicity Assessment: Standard CPFs established by Cal/EPA were used to estimate potential
          carcinogenic and non-cancer health effects from exposures to DPM emitted from the
          Proposed Project site. This value is derived by applying conservative assumptions and are
          intended to protect the most sensitive individuals in the potentially exposed populations.

          To derive the toxicity values, Cal/EPA makes several assumptions that tend to overestimate
          the actual hazard or risk to human health. CPFs used to estimate carcinogenic risk are also
          typically derived based on data from animal studies. These data are based on studies in
          which high doses of a test chemical were administered to laboratory animals, and the



Uncertainties                                           18                                Ramboll Environ
                                                                               Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                                  405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                     San Mateo, California



          reported response is extrapolated to the much lower doses typical of human exposure. Very
          little experimental data are available on the nature of the dose-response relationship at low
          doses, such as whether a threshold exists or if the dose-response curve passes through the
          origin. Because of this uncertainty, a conservative model is used to estimate the low-dose
          relationship, and uses an upper bound estimate (the 95 upper confidence limit of the slope
          predicted by the extrapolation model) as the CPF. With this factor, an upper-bound estimate
          of potential cancer risks is obtained.

          The Cal/EPA CPF for DPM is used to estimate cancer risks associated with exposure to DPM
          from the Proposed Project construction and operations. However, the CPF derived by Cal/EPA
          for DPM is highly uncertain in both the estimation of response and dose. In the past, due to
          inadequate animal test data and epidemiology data on diesel exhaust, the International
          Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a branch of the World Health Organization (WHO),
          had classified DPM as Probably Carcinogenic to Humans (Group 2); the USEPA had also
          concluded that the existing data did not provide an adequate basis for quantitative risk
          assessment (USEPA 2002). However, based on two recent scientific studies (Attfield 2012,
          Benbrahim-Tallaa 2012, Silverman 2012), IARC has re-classified DPM as Carcinogenic to
          Humans to Group 1 (IARC 2012), which means that the agency has determined that there is
          “sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity” of a substance in humans and represents the
          strongest weight-of-evidence rating in IARC’s carcinogen classification scheme. This
          determination by the IARC may provide additional impetus for the USEPA to identify a
          quantitative dose-response relationship between exposure to DPM and cancer.

          Risk Calculations: The USEPA notes that the conservative assumptions used in a risk
          assessment are intended to assure that the estimated risks do not underestimate the actual
          risks posed by a source and that the estimated risks do not necessarily represent actual risks
          experienced by populations at or near a site (USEPA 1989).

          The estimated risks in this HRA are based primarily on a series of conservative assumptions
          related to predicted environmental concentrations, exposure, and chemical toxicity. The use
          of conservative assumptions tends to produce upper-bound estimates of risk. Although it is
          difficult to quantify the uncertainties associated with all the assumptions made in this risk
          assessment, the use of conservative assumptions is likely to result in substantial
          overestimates of exposure, and hence, risk. BAAQMD acknowledges this uncertainty by
          stating: “the methods used [to estimate risk] are conservative, meaning that the real risks
          from the source may be lower than the calculations, but it is unlikely that they will be higher”
          (BAAQMD 2016b).




Uncertainties                                            19                                Ramboll Environ
                                                                            Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                               405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                  San Mateo, California




9.       REFERENCES
         Attfield MD, Schleiff PL, Lubin JH, Blair A, Stewart PA, Vermeulen R, Coble JB, Silverman DT.
              2012. The Diesel Exhaust in Miners Study: A Nested Case-Control Study of Lung Cancer
              and Diesel Exhaust. J Natl Cancer Inst.

         BAAQMD. 2009. Regulation 8 Organic Compounds Rule 3 Architectural Coatings. Available
            at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/Files/Planning%20and%20Research
            /Rules%20and%20Regs/reg%2008/rg0803_0709.ashx?la=en

         BAAQMD. 2012a. California Environmental Quality Act Air Quality Guidelines. May. Available
            online at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/Files/Planning%20and%20Research/CEQA
            /BAAQMD%20CEQA%20Guidelines_Final_May%202012.ashx?la=en

         BAAQMD. 2012b. Recommended Methods for Screening and Modeling Local Risks and
            Hazards. May. Available at:
            http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/Files/Planning%20and%20Research/CEQA/Risk%20M
            odeling%20Approach%20May%202012.ashx?la=en

         BAAQMD. 2012. The San Francisco Community Risk Reduction Plan: Technical Support
            Documentation, V9.

         BAAQMD. 2015. Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator for San Mateo County. Available
            online at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/plans-and-climate/california-environmental-quality-
            act-ceqa/ceqa-tools

         BAAQMD. 2016a. Proposed Health Risk Assessment Guidelines. Air Toxics NSR program.
            January. Available at: http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-
            research/rules-and-regs/workshops/2016/reg-2-5/hra-guidelines_clean_jan_2016-
            pdf.pdf?la=en

         BAAQMD. 2016b. Frequently Asked Questions – Toxic Air Contaminants. Available at:
            http://hank.baaqmd.gov/pmt/air_toxics/faq.htm

         Benbrahim-Tallaa, L. et al. 2012. Carcinogenicity of Diesel-engine and Gasoline-engine
            Exhausts and Some Nitroarenes, Lancet Oncology. July 2012

         California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2009. Health Risk Assessment
             for Proposed Land Use Projects.

         CAPCOA. 2016. CalEEMod User’s Guide. Available at: http://www.caleemod.com

         California Environmental Protection Agency (Cal/EPA), Office of Environmental Health Hazard
             Assessment (OEHHA). 1998. Findings of the Scientific Review Panel on The Report on
             Diesel Exhaust, as adopted at the Panel’s April 22, 1998, meeting.




References                                             20                               Ramboll Environ
                                                                            Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                               405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                  San Mateo, California



         Cal/EPA. 2009. Technical Support Document for Cancer Potency Factors: Methodologies for
             Derivation, Listing of Available Values, and Adjustment to Allow for Early Life Stage
             Exposures. May. Available online at:
             http://oehha.ca.gov/air/hot_spots/2009/TSDCancerPotency.pdf . Accessed February 2013.

         Cal/EPA. 2016. OEHHA/ARB Consolidated Table of Approved Risk Assessment Health Values.
             March. http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/healthval/contable.pdf.

         Caltrain. 2009. Available at: http://caltrain-hsr.blogspot.com/2009/03/freight-on-
             peninsula.html?_sm_au_=iVVk1v3QJDPFDDQq.

         City of San Mateo. 2010. 2030 General Plan, Land Use Element, Section LU 8.11. October.
             Available at: http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/44794.

         International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). 2012. Press Release No. 213. IARC:
             Diesel Engine Exhaust Carcinogenic. June. Available at: http://www.iarc.fr/en/media-
             centre/pr/2012/pdfs/pr213_E.pdf

         OEHHA. 2003. The Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health
            Risk Assessments. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment. August. Available
            at: http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/hot_spots/pdf/HRAguidefinal.pdf

         OEHHA. 2015. The Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health
            Risk Assessments. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment. August. Available
            at: http://www.oehha.ca.gov/air/hot_spots/pdf/HRAguidefinal.pdf

         Silverman DT, Samanic CM, Lubin JH, Blair AE, Stewart PA, Vermeulen R, Coble JB, Rothman
             N, Schleiff PL, Travis WD, Ziegler RG, Wacholder S, Attfield MD. 2012. The Diesel
             Exhaust in Miners Study: A Cohort Mortality Study with Emphasis on Lung Cancer. J Natl
             Cancer Inst.

         USEPA. 1989. Risk Assessment Guidance for Superfund Human Health Risk Assessment:
            U.S. EPA Region IX Recommendations (Interim Final). San Francisco, CA. December.

         USEPA. 2002. Health Assessment Document for Diesel Engine Exhaust. National Center for
            Environmental Assessment, Office of Research and Development, Washington, DC.
            EPA/600/8-90/057F. May. Available at:
            http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/nas/RDRP/appendices/chapter6/a6-110.pdf

         USEPA. 2004. User’s Guide for the AMS/EPA Regulatory Model - AERMOD. September.
            Available online at: http://www.epa.gov/scram001/dispersion_prefrec.htm.

         USEPA. 2005. Guideline on Air Quality Models (Revised). 40 Code of Federal Regulations,
            Part 51, Appendix W. Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. November. Available
            at: https://www.epa.gov/ttn/scram/guidance_permit.htm#appw

         USEPA. 2012. Haul Road Workgroup Final Report Submission to EPA-OAQPS. March.
            Available online at: https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/scram/reports/Haul_Road_Workgroup-
            Final_Report_Package-20120302.pdf



References                                            21                                Ramboll Environ
                                                                           Air Quality Technical Report
                                                                              405 E. 4th Avenue Project
                                                                                 San Mateo, California



         United States Geological Survey (USGS). 2013. National Elevation Dataset. Available at:
             http://viewer.nationalmap.gov/viewer/.




References                                            22                               Ramboll Environ
Air Quality Technical Report
   405 E. 4th Avenue Project
      San Mateo, California




                TABLES




            Ramboll Environ
                                     Table 1
                           Project Construction Phasing
                                405 E. 4th Avenue
                              San Mateo, California


                                                   Phase Start     Phase End
                   Phase Name
                                                      Date           Date
   Demolition                                       6/5/2017        6/30/2017
   Site Preparation                                 7/3/2017        7/14/2017
   Grading                                          7/17/2017        9/1/2017
   Building Construction                            9/4/2017         8/6/2018
   Architectural Coating                            8/6/2018        9/14/2018
   Paving                                           8/17/2018       9/12/2018

Notes:
 1. The project construction schedule as provided by the project sponsor.




                                    Page 1 of 1
                                                               Table 2
                                              Emission Calculation Methodologies
                                                         405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                        San Mateo, California



                  Type                         Source                  Methodology and Formula              Reference



                                                                           ®
         Construction Equipment         Off-Road Equipment         CalEEMod 2016.3.1                  CalEEMod® 2016.3.1



      Construction On-Road Mobile                                             ®                                ®
                                          On-Road Vehicles         CalEEMod 2016.3.1                  CalEEMod 2016.3.1
                 Sources


                                       Exhaust - Running and                                          Caltrain 2014.
           Caltrain Emissions1                                     E = EF * VMT
                                               Idling                                                 BAAQMD 2011.


                                                                                                      ARB 2014.
                             2
            Freight Emissions            Exhaust - Running         ER = TD * EF ÷ FCI                 ARB Vision 2.1
                                                                                                      Database


Notes:
 1.
    E: running and idling exhaust emissions (g/day)
    EF: running and idling emission factor (g/day/mile)
    VMT: Distance Traveled (miles)
 2.
      ER: running and idling exhaust emissions (lb)
      EF: running emission factor (g/gal)
      TD: Traffic Density (gross ton-miles) = Train Weight (tons) x Distance Traveled (miles)
      FCI: Fuel Consumption Index (gross ton-miles/gal)


Abbreviations:
      ARB - California Air Resources Board                         g - gram
      BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District            HP - Horsepower
      bhp - brake horsepower-hour                                  lb - pound
      CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model             LF - Load Factor
      EF - Emission Factor                                         USEPA - United States Environmental Protection Agency
      EMFAC - Emission Factor Model                                VMT - vehicle miles traveled


References:
  CalEEMod 2016.3.1. Available at: http://www.caleemod.com/
      ARB. 2014. Locomotive Industry Update: Line Haul Activity. November 7.
      https://www.arb.ca.gov/msei/goods_movement_emission_inventory_line_haul_octworkshop_v3.pdf.

      ARB Vision 2.1 Database. https://www.arb.ca.gov/planning/vision/downloads.htm
      Caltrain. 2014. Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project (PCEP) Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR). SCH
      #2013012079. Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board. February. Available at:
      http://www.caltrain.com/Assets/Caltrain+Modernization+Program/DEIR/Chapter+2+Project+Description.pdf

      Email from Phil Martien of BAAQMD to Michael Keinath of ENVIRON on September 7, 2011.
      "SummaryCaltrain_Emissions.xlsx".




                                                             Page 1 of 1
                                                            Table 3
                                            Project Construction CAP Emissions1
                                                      405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                    San Mateo, California


                                                      Total CAP Emissions
                                                                                       Emissions2
                Year                          Source                     ROG      NOx             PM10   PM2.5
                                                                                        lbs/year
            Year 1- 2017              Off-road Equipment and              114     927              64     62
            Year 2- 2018               Architectural Coatings             866     920              59     59
            Year 1- 2017                                                  72     1,721             11     10
                                     On-road Trucks and Vehicles
            Year 2- 2018                                                  34      169              1.6    1.5
                        Total Emissions (lbs)                            1,086   3,736            136    132



                                                  Average Daily Emissions
                                                                                       Emissions2
                                     Days of Construction Per
                Year                                                     ROG      NOx             PM10   PM2.5
                                               Year3
                                                                                        lbs/day
            Year 1- 2017                        150                       1.2      18             0.50   0.48
            Year 2- 2018                        185                       4.9     5.9             0.33   0.32

      Total Length of Construction for the Project3 (days)                                335

        Daily Emissions Averaged Over All Construction                   ROG      NOx             PM10   PM2.5
                        Years (lb/day)                                    3.2      11             0.40   0.39
                       CEQA Threshold (lb/day)                            54       54              82     54
                         Exceeds Threshold?                               NO       NO              NO     NO

Notes:
 1. Emissions shown here represent emissions using default CalEEMod® off-road construction equipment tiers

    based on the equipment type and calendar year being modeled.
 2.   Emissions were estimated in CalEEMod®. A construction equipment list and hours of operation for each piece
      of equipment for each year were provided by the project sponsor and can be found in Appendix A.
 3.   Construction duration is expected to be 16 months with a schedule from June 2017 through September 2018
      as specified by the project sponsor. This reflects 5 workdays per week.

Abbreviations:
      BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
      CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model
      CAP - criteria air pollutant
      CEQA - California Environmental Quality Act
      lb - pound
      NOx - nitrogen oxide compounds (NO + NO2)
      PM - particulate matter
      PM10 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than 10 microns
      PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
      ROG - reactive organic gas

References:
  BAAQMD. 2011. CEQA Air Quality Guidelines. May. Available at:
  http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/Files/Planning%20and%20Research/CEQA/BAAQMD%20CEQA%20Guidelin
  es_May%202011_5_3_11.ashx.
      California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2016. CalEEMod. Available at:
      http://www.caleemod.com.



                                                           Page 1 of 1
                                                            Table 4
                                       Project Construction TAC Emissions by Year1
                                                      405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                    San Mateo, California


                                  Total TAC Emissions Used in Health Risk Assessment2
                                                                                                    Short-Term
                                                                  Long-Term Health Impacts
                                                                                                   Health Impacts
               Year                      Source
                                                                  Diesel PM             PM2.5            TOG
                                                                                       lbs/year
           Year 1- 2017         Off-road Diesel Equipment             64                 62              116
           Year 2 -2018                  Exhaust                      59                 59              121
           Year 1- 2017         On-road Diesel Trucks and             0.30              0.29              2.4
           Year 2 -2018              Vehicles Exhaust                 0.10              0.092             1.7
                      Total Emissions (lbs)                           124               121              241

Notes:
 1.
    Emissions based on default CalEEMod® off-road construction equipment tiers based on the equipment type and
    calendar year being modeled.
 2.
      Emissions were estimated in CalEEMod® based on default construction equipment and hours of operation.

Abbreviations:
  CalEEMod® - California Emissions Estimator Model
  lb - pound
  PM - particulate matter
  PM10 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than 10 microns
      PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
      TAC - toxic air contaminant
      TOG - total organic gas
      yr - year

Reference:
  California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). 2016. CalEEMod. Available at:
  http://www.caleemod.com.




                                                            Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                     Table 5a
                                                                                       Caltrain Emissions Calculations1
                                                                                               405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                                                              San Mateo, California


                                                                    Total Daily                                                                   Idling       Running
                                                      Travel                                       Total Daily     Total Daily      Average                                                    Daily
       Service       Service         Activity2             3        Operating      Total Stops5              6                                   Emission      Emission   Emission Rate
                                                      Time                 4                       Idle Time       Run Time7         Speed 8           9                                     Emissions
                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
        Days        Categories     (trains/day)                       Time         (stops/day)                                                     Rate          Rate9    Assumptions9
                                                    (min/train)                                    (min/day)       (min/day)       (miles/hr)                                                 (g/day)
                                                                    (min/day)                                                                     (g/hr)        (g/hr)
                   Local                 28               26            728             224             224             504           58.00          47.9        228.6    Throttle Notch 4     1,920
      Weekday      Limited               42               23            966             232             232             734           59.74          47.9        289.7    Throttle Notch 5     3,544
                   Baby Bullet           22               17            363              50              50             313           73.38          16.9        570.0    Throttle Notch 7     2,974
                   Local                 30               29            870             270             270             600           52.20          47.9        228.6    Throttle Notch 4     2,286
      Weekend
                   Baby Bullet            4               19             76              16              16             60            69.60          47.9        402.7    Throttle Notch 7      403


Notes:
 1.
      Emissions calculated based on data provided by BAAQMD for travel in San Mateo County.
 2.
      Activity obtained from Caltrain online schedules.
 3.
      Travel time is the time the train spends in San Mateo County based on Caltrain online schedules.
 4.
      Total Daily Operating Time represents the total time all trains spend in the county per day. It is calculated as the product of the Activity and Travel Time.
 5.
      Total Stops is based on Caltrain online schedules.
 6.
      Total Idling Time assumes each train stops for 1.0 minutes at each stop.
 7.
      Total Run Time is the difference between the Total Daily Operating Time and the Total Idling Time.
 8.
      Average speed calculated based of the Total Run Time, Activity, and the total distance of railway in the county (17.4 miles, which was provided by BAAQMD).
 9.
      Emission Rate provided by BAAQMD. The rate is dependent on the throttle notch, which is dependent on the average speed. Local and Limited trains are assumed to be GP40X Tier 0 engines
      and Baby Bullet trains are Dash 9 Tier 1 engines.
10.
       Daily Emissions calculated as the Emission Rate and the Total Run Time.


Abbreviations:
      BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
      DPM - diesel particulate matter
      g - gram
      min - minute
      hr - hour

References:
  Caltrain. 2014. Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project (PCEP) Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR). SCH #2013012079. Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board. February. Available at:
  http://www.caltrain.com/Assets/Caltrain+Modernization+Program/DEIR/Chapter+2+Project+Description.pdf
      Email from Phil Martien of BAAQMD to Michael Keinath of ENVIRON on September 7, 2011. "SummaryCaltrain_Emissions.xlsx".




                                                                                                   Page 1 of 1
                                                                                        Table 5b
                                                                         Caltrain Emissions for HRA Modeling
                                                                                   405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                                                 San Mateo, California


                                                                                                  Daily Average                                  Modeled Daily DPM
                                   DPM Emissions1           Total Distance          DPM Emissions                             Modeled Length
                    Service                                                                            DPM                                          Emissions3
        County                        (g/day)                  (miles)               (g/day/mile)                                (miles)
                   Categories                                                                      Emissions2                                         (g/day)
                                 Weekday Weekend         Weekday     Weekend      Weekday Weekend (g/day/mile)           Northbound Southbound Northbound Southbound
                  Local            1,920       2,286        487          522         3.9          4.4         4.1             0.40       0.40     1.6         1.6
      San Mateo   Limited          3,544         0          731           0          4.8              0       3.5             0.40       0.40     1.4         1.4
                  Baby Bullet      2,974        403         383          70          7.8          5.8         7.2             0.40       0.40     2.9         2.9


Notes:
 1.
      Caltrain emissions provided in 2011 by BAAQMD were adjusted to account for current Caltrain schedule, according to Caltrain.com.
 2.
      Calculated as a weighted average based on the number of weekday days and weekend days in a week.
 3.
      Calculated assuming constant emissions along the length of the railroad tracks through the county.

Abbreviations:
  DPM - diesel particulate matter
  g - gram
  BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District

Reference:
   Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD), 2011. "SummaryCaltrain_Emissions.xlsx". Received by email, September.




                                                                                        Page 1 of 1
                                                               Table 6
                                            Freight Train Emissions for HRA Modeling
                                                         405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                       San Mateo, California


                                     Distance per         Fuel Consumption           Train      PM2.5 Emission   Daily PM2.5
                      Train Trips1
      Train Tracks                       Train2                 Index3              Weight4          Factor5     Emissions
                       (trip/day)
                                     (meters/trip)      (gross ton-miles/gal)       (tons)           (g/gal)      (g/day)
       Northbound           3            642.96                                                                     16.8
                                                                 782.17               4,476            2.44
       Southbound           3            642.54                                                                     16.7


Notes:
 1.
    Union Pacific operates three freight trains per weekday (Caltrain 2009).
 2.
      Modeled train track lengths. Represents the track length within 1,000 feet of the Proposed Project.
 3.
      Fuel consumption index for 2018 (first opertional year) based on 2011 fuel consumption index for Bay Area air basin
      assuming 1% increase per year (ARB 2014).
 4.
      Train weight assumes 45 boxcars and 2 locomotives per train. Boxcar weight based on average of empty and full boxcar
      weights.
 5.
      PM2.5 emission factor calculated based on PM2.5 emissions and fuel usage from ARB Vision 2.1 database.

Abbreviations:
  ARB - Air Resources Board
  g - grams
  gal - gallons
  PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less

References:
  ARB. 2014. Locomotive Industry Update: Line Haul Activity. November 7.
  https://www.arb.ca.gov/msei/goods_movement_emission_inventory_line_haul_octworkshop_v3.pdf.
      ARB Vision 2.1 Database. https://www.arb.ca.gov/planning/vision/downloads.htm
      Caltrain. 2009. http://caltrain-hsr.blogspot.com/2009/03/freight-on-peninsula.html?_sm_au_=iVVk1v3QJDPFDDQq
      http://www.bnsf.com/customers/pdf/50ftF_BoxcarDiagram.pdf
      http://media.getransportation.com/sites/default/files/3%20EvoSeries%20Tier%204_locomotives.pdf




                                                             Page 1 of 1
                                                                       Table 7
                            Diesel TOG Speciation Profile and Carcinogenic and Noncarcinogenic Toxicity Values
                                                                 405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                               San Mateo, California


                                                                      Cancer Potency           Chronic Reference           Acute Reference
                                                 Fraction of              Factor                Exposure Level             Exposure Level
                     Chemical1                                           (CPF)3,4                   (REL)3,4                    (REL)3
                                                    TOG2
                                                                      [mg/kg-day]-1                  (μg/m3)                    (μg/m3)
     Diesel particulate matter                         --                    1.1                         5                          --
     Acetaldehyde                                   0.0735                                                                         470
     Benzene                                         0.020                                                                          27
     1,3-Butadiene                                  0.0019                                                                         660
     Formaldehyde                                   0.1471                                                                          55
     Methanol                                       0.0003                                                                        28000
     Methyl ethyl ketone                            0.0148                                                                        13000
     Styrene                                        0.0006                                                                        21000
     Toluene                                        0.0147                                                                        37000
     m-Xylene                                       0.0061                                                                        22000
     o-Xylene                                       0.0034                                                                        22000
     p-Xylene                                       0.0010                                                                        22000


Notes:
1. Values presented in this table reflect values used in this analysis. If a chemical that was a component of emissions estimates does not

   have a cancer potency factor, chronic reference level, or acute reference level, it is not presented.
2.
   Fractions are from USEPA Speciation Profile 3161, with the exception of acrolein per BAAQMD guidance (BAAQMD 2016).
3.
     The cancer potency factors, chronic reference levels, and acute reference levels were obtained from Cal/EPA 2016.
4.
     Gray highlighting indicates the chemical shown may have a cancer potency factor and/or chronic reference level; however, it is not
     presented here because the chemical is included in the analysis as part of the speciation of diesel particulate matter. Cancer risk and
     chronic hazard index are calculated using the cancer potency factor and chronic reference level from diesel particulate instead of the
     individual chemicals in the speciation profile for diesel emissions.


Abbreviations:
     Cal/EPA: California Environmental Protection Agency          mg: milligram
     CPF: cancer potency factor                                   REL: reference exposure level
     kg: kilogram                                                 µg: microgram
     m3: cubic meter                                              USEPA: United States Environmental Protection Agency


References:
     Cal/EPA. 2016. OEHHA/ARB Consolidated Table of Approved Risk Assessment Health Values. March. Available at:
     http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/healthval/contable.pdf Accessed June 2016.
     BAAQMD. 2016. Proposed Health Risk Assessment Guidelines. Air Toxics NSR program. January. Available at:
     http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/rules-and-regs/workshops/2016/reg-2-5/hra-guidelines_clean_jan_2016-
     pdf.pdf?la=en




                                                                     Page 1 of 1
                                                                       Table 8
                                                Modeling Parameters for Construction and Railway
                                                               405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                              San Mateo, California


                                                                                                                    Initial
                                      Source                                         Number of        Release
                Source                     1             Source Dimension                     2             3      Vertical         Width
                                                                                                                                            5
                                       Type                                           Sources         Height                4
                                                                                                                  Dimension
                                                                [m]                                     [m]            [m]            [m]
                                                                              2
        Construction Equipment          Area            0.61 acres; 2474.2 m              1               5           1.40            N/A
                Railway                  Line       642.96 m (NB); 642.54 m (SB)          2               5           1.16             9
Notes:
1.
   A city-wide HRA was conducted for San Francisco as part of the development of a Community Risk Reduction Plan (CRRP). Ramboll
   Environ used methodology consistent with the San Francisco CRRP-HRA (BAAQMD 2012) when setting up the model. According to the
   CRRP-HRA methodology, construction sources are modeled as area sources.
2.
   The two line sources correspond to the northbound (NB) and southbound (SB) tracks.
3.
   The release heights of 5 meters for the construction source and rail lines is consistent with the CRRP-HRA methodology (BAAQMD 2012).
4.
   The initial vertical dimension for the construction area source is explicitly given in the CRRP-HRA methodology. For rail sources, initial
   vertical dimension is calculated as the release height divided by 4.3 (USEPA 2004).
5.
   The width of the line source is consistent with the Haul Road Work Group Final Report (USEPA 2012). The vehicle width is assumed to be
   3 meters with an additional 6 meters added (3 meters to both sides) to account for the mechanical turbulence from moving vehicles.


Abbreviations:
  BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
   CRRP - Community Risk Reduction Plan
   HRA - Health Risk Assessment
   m - meter
    2
   m - meters squared
   USEPA - United States Environmental Protection Agency
   NB - Northbound
   SB - Southbound
   NA - not applicable


References:
  BAAQMD. 2012. The San Francisco Community Risk Reduction Plan: Technical Support Documentation, V9.
   USEPA. 2004. User’s Guide for the AMS/EPA Regulatory Model - AERMOD. September.
   Available online at: http://www.epa.gov/scram001/dispersion_prefrec.htm.
   USEPA. 2012. Haul Road Workgroup Final Report Submission to EPA-OAQPS. March.
   Available online at: https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/scram/reports/Haul_Road_Workgroup-Final_Report_Package-20120302.pdf




                                                                      Page 1 of 1
                                                                              Table 9
                                                                      Exposure Parameters
                                                                         405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                                      San Mateo, California


                                                                                                  Exposure Parameters
                                                                Daily                          Fraction of                                        Intake
                                                                               Exposure                         Exposure        Averaging
        Receptor                          Receptor Age        Breathing                          Time at                                          Factor,
                           Phase                                               Duration                         Frequency         Time
          Type                               Group              Rate                              Home                                          Inhalation
                                                                                 (ED)2                             (EF)4          (AT)
                                                               (DBR)1                             (FAH)3                                           (IFinh)

                                                              [L/kg-day]         [years]        [unitless]     [days/year]        [days]       [m3/kg-day]
         Off-Site
                        Construction      Age 0-<2 Years         1,090              2                1              350            25,550           0.30
         Resident
                                          3rd Trimester           361              0.25             1                                               0.012
         On-Site                         Age 0-<2 Years          1,090               2              1                                                0.30
                          Operation      Age 2-<16 Years          572               14              1               350            25,550            0.33
         Resident
                                         Age 16-30 Years          261               14             0.73                                             0.037


Notes:
 1.
      Daily breathing rates reflect default breathing rates from OEHHA 2015 and BAAQMD 2016 as follows: 95th percentile 24-hour daily breathing rate for
      3rd trimester and age 0-<2 years; 80th percentile for ages 2 years and older (per BAAQMD 2016 guidance).
 2.
      Construction duration is conservatively assumed to be two years.
 3.
      Fraction of time spent at home is conservatively assumed to be 1 (i.e. 24 hours/day) for age groups from the third trimester to less than 9 years old
      based on the recommendation from BAAQMD (BAAQMD 2016) and OEHHA (OEHHA 2015). The fraction of time at home for adults age 16-30 reflects
      default OEHHA guidance (OEHHA 2015) as recommended by BAAQMD (2016).
 4.
      Exposure frequency reflects default residential exposure frequency from OEHHA 2015.


Calculation:
      IFinh = DBR * FAH * EF * ED * CF / AT
      CF = 0.001 (m3/L)

Abbreviations:
   AT - averaging time                                                       IFinh - intake factor
   BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District                         kg - kilogram
   DBR - daily breathing rate                                                L - liter
   ED - exposure duration                                                    m3 - cubic meter
   EF - exposure frequency                                                   OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
   FAH - fraction of time at home


References:
      BAAQMD. 2016. Air Toxics NSR ProgramHealth Risk Assessment (HRA) Guidelines. January.
      OEHHA. 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. February.




                                                                             Page 1 of 1
                                                   Table 10
                                                                     1
                                          Age Sensitivity Factors
                                               405 E. 4th Avenue
                                             San Mateo, California


        Receptor Type               Period              Receptor Age Group            Value
        Off-site Resident        Construction               Age 0-<2 Years              10
                                                             3rd Trimester              10
                                                            Age 0-<2 Years              10
        On-site Resident           Operation                Age 2-<9 Years              3
                                                           Age 2-<16 Years              3
                                                            Age >16 Years               1


Notes:
 1.
    Based on OEHHA 2015. Age sensitivity factors are unitless.


Abbreviations:
   OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment

Reference:
   OEHHA. 2015. Air Toxics Hot Spots Program Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for
   Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. February.




                                                   Page 1 of 1
                                                                                         Table 11
                                                    Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk and PM2.5 Concentration at Off-site and On-site MEISRs
                                                                         Using Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator
                                                                                        405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                                                       San Mateo, California


                                                                                    Distance                                                                     BAAQMD Screening Impacts5
                                                                                                     Reported                        Direction to    Cancer
                                                                                      from                                                                         Lifetime
                                                                                                   Average Daily       Roadway        Resident        Risk                           PM2.5
    Receptor                            Road Segment                               Roadway to                                                                   Excess Cancer
                                                                                                      Traffic2         Direction3       from         Scaling                      Concentration
                                                                                    Resident1                                                                         Risk
                                                                                                                                      Roadway3       Factor4
                                                                                        [ft]       [vehicles/day]                                                (in a million)      (µg/m3)
                S. Delaware Street (between E. 3rd and E. 4th Avenues)                  269            12,870          East-West         South                         2.7             0.048
     Off-site                                                                                                                                          1.37
                E. 4th Avenue (between S. Delaware and S. El Dorado Streets)            269            12,780         North-South         East                         4.4             0.073
      MEISR
                Total                                                                                                                                                 7.1              0.12
                S. Delaware Street (between E. 3rd and E. 4th Avenues)                  289              12,870        East-West         South                         2.6             0.045
     On-site                                                                                                                                           1.37
                E. 4th Avenue (between S. Delaware and S. El Dorado Streets)            361              12,780        East-West         North                         2.7             0.042
     MEISR
                Total                                                                                                                                                 5.3             0.087

Notes:
 1. For a screening assessment, the table provides health impacts to residential areas within 1,000 ft of the Project. Distances presented represent the minimum distance from the MEISR to the

    road segment.
 2. Average daily traffic volumes (ADT) for roads within 1,000 feet of the project boundary were estimated as ten times the PM peak hourly traffic data provided by Hexagon Transportation

    Consultants, Inc.
 3. The BAAQMD Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator (BAAQMD 2015) assumes roadways run N-S and E-W. The roadways surrounding the Project site run NW-SE and SW-NE rather than N-

    S and E-W. Based on roadway orientation and to provide a conservative estimate of impacts, impacts for S. Delaware Street were evaluated for N-S road direction with resident to the west
    and E-W road direction with resident to the south. Similarly, for E. 4th Avenue impacts were evaluted for N-S road direction with resident to the east and E-W road direction with resident to
    the south. The roadway and resident direction with the highest impacts are presented in this table.
 4. BAAQMD screening tool calculated impacts are based on previous OEHHA guidance. Per BAAQMD recommendations, cancer risks were conservatively scaled by a factor of 1.37 to account for

    the updated exposure parameters and calculation methodologies in OEHHA 2015 guidance.
 5. Screening estimates of health impacts were estimated with the BAAQMD Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator (BAAQMD 2015) for San Mateo County. The cancer risk scaling factor was

    applied to the BAAQMD screening impacts for lifetime excess cancer risk.

Abbreviations:
  ADT - Average Daily Traffic
  E-W - east-west
  ft - feet
  m3 - cubic meter
  MEISR - Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor
  µg - microgram
  OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
  N-S - north-south
  NW-SE - northwest-southeast
  PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
  SW-NE - southwest-northeast

References:
  BAAQMD. 2015. Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator. April. Available online at :
  http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/screeningcalculator_4_16_15-xlsx.xlsx?la=en
   Cal/EPA, 2015. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) Air Toxics Hot Spots Program. Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk
   Assessments. February.




                                                                                           Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                       Table 12a
                                                                              Stationary Source Screening Analysis at Off-site MEISR
                                                                                                    405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                                                                San Mateo, California

                                                                                                               Distance to                                    Estimated
                                                                                    UTM              UTM                    Distance    Cancer Risk                                         Estimated PM2.5
      Facility                                                                                                   Off-site                                  Lifetime Excess
               1          Facility Name              Facility Street Address       Northing         Easting             2  Adjustment     Scaling                        4,5   Chronic HI   Concentration5
      Number                                                                                                     MEISR                3          4          Cancer Risk
                                                                                                                            Multiplier    Factor
                                                                                              (m)                  (m)                                       (in a million)                    (μg/m3)
       G8927       Arco #0515 - Arthur Kwan         300 S. Delaware Street         560,042      4,157,974           146          0.05                             2.1           0.0025            N/A

       G9494       Conoco Phillips #256390          402 S. Delaware Street         560,112      4,157,889           50           0.26                             5.7            0.068            N/A
                   Downtown Properties V, LLC
       17604                                        181 E. 2nd Avenue              559,663      4,157,860           437          0.04                             0.28         8.00E-05        4.00E-05
                   c/o Spectrum
       G10792 Gas and Shop                          609 E. 4th Street              560,137      4,157,966           132          0.06                             3.1           0.0037            N/A
                                                                                                                                                1.37
       15049       Glenborough Realty Trust         101 S. Ellsworth Street        559,680      4,157,922           428          0.04                             0.22         4.00E-05        4.00E-05

       G10453 San Mateo Gas Co.                     706 E. 4th Street              560,221      4,157,985           189          0.03                             0.63         7.59E-04           N/A

                                              6
        9555       San Mateo Lumber Co, Inc.        501 S. Claremont Street        560,175      4,157,764           107          N/A                              0.00           0.00            0.61

       G12267 Third Street Shell                    611 E. 3rd Avenue              560,040      4,158,048           217          0.03                             0.66         6.21E-04           N/A

                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL           13            0.075           0.61


Notes:
 1. All facilities within 1,000 feet of the Project site were included as per the BAAQMD Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool. Facility information was obtained from the San Mateo County Stationary

    Source Screening tool with additional details provided by BAAQMD.
 2.   The distance presented here is from the source to the off-site MEISR.
 3.   Distance adjustment multipliers are from either the BAAQMD Diesel Risk Multiplier for diesel generators or the BAAQMD Multiplier for Gasoline Dispensing Facilities.
 4.   BAAQMD screening tools' calculated impacts are based on previous OEHHA guidance. Per BAAQMD recommendations, cancer risks were conservatively scaled by a factor of 1.37 to account for the
      updated exposure parameters and calculation methodologies in OEHHA 2015 guidance.
 5.   The adjusted health impacts listed in the table above were calculated using the health impacts estimated using BAAQMD Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool and were adjusted using either the
      BAAQMD Diesel Risk Multiplier for diesel generators or the BAAQMD Multiplier for Gasoline Dispensing Facilities.
 6.   Refined modeling was conducted for the San Mateo Lumber Co, Inc. facility based on PM2.5 emissions provided by BAAQMD. Documentation is provided in Appendix D.

Abbreviations:
  BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
  m - meter
  m3 - cubic meter
  MEISR - Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor
  µg - microgram
  OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
  PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
  HI - hazard index
  UTM - Universal Transverse Mercator

References:
      BAAQMD. 2012. Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool. May. Available online at:
      http://www.baaqmd.gov/plans‐and‐climate/california‐environmental‐quality‐act‐ceqa/ceqa‐tools
      Cal/EPA, 2015. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) Air Toxics Hot Spots Program. Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments.
      February.




                                                                                                      Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                       Table 12b
                                                                              Stationary Source Screening Analysis at On-site MEISR
                                                                                                    405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                                                                San Mateo, California

                                                                                                               Distance to                                    Estimated
                                                                                    UTM              UTM                    Distance    Cancer Risk                                         Estimated PM2.5
      Facility                                                                                                   On-site                                   Lifetime Excess
               1          Facility Name              Facility Street Address       Northing         Easting            2   Adjustment     Scaling                        4,5   Chronic HI   Concentration5
      Number                                                                                                      MEIR                3          4          Cancer Risk
                                                                                                                            Multiplier    Factor
                                                                                              (m)                  (m)                                       (in a million)                    (μg/m3)
       G8927       Arco #0515 - Arthur Kwan         300 S. Delaware Street         560,042      4,157,974           97           0.10                             4.0           0.0049            N/A

       G9494       Conoco Phillips #256390          402 S. Delaware Street         560,112      4,157,889           92           0.10                             2.3            0.027            N/A
                   Downtown Properties V, LLC
       17604                                        181 E. 2nd Avenue              559,663      4,157,860           358          0.04                             0.28         8.00E-05        4.00E-05
                   c/o Spectrum
       G10792 Gas and Shop                          609 E. 4th Street              560,137      4,157,966           146          0.05                             2.6           0.0031            N/A
                                                                                                                                                1.37
       15049       Glenborough Realty Trust         101 S. Ellsworth Street        559,680      4,157,922           343          0.04                             0.22         4.00E-05        4.00E-05

       G10453 San Mateo Gas Co.                     706 E. 4th Street              560,221      4,157,985           227          0.03                             0.48         5.75E-04           N/A

                                              6
        9555       San Mateo Lumber Co, Inc.        501 S. Claremont Street        560,175      4,157,764           194          N/A                              0.00           0.00            0.053

       G12267 Third Street Shell                    611 E. 3rd Avenue              560,040      4,158,048           169          0.04                             0.98         9.20E-04           N/A

                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL           11            0.037           0.053


Notes:
 1. All facilities within 1,000 feet of the Project site were included as per the BAAQMD Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool. Facility information was obtained from the San Mateo County Stationary

    Source Screening tool with additional details provided by BAAQMD.
 2.   The distance presented here is from the source to the on-site MEISR.
 3.   Distance adjustment multipliers are from either the BAAQMD Diesel Risk Multiplier for diesel generators or the BAAQMD Multiplier for Gasoline Dispensing Facilities.
 4.   BAAQMD screening tools' calculated impacts are based on previous OEHHA guidance. Per BAAQMD recommendations, cancer risks were conservatively scaled by a factor of 1.37 to account for the
      updated exposure parameters and calculation methodologies in OEHHA 2015 guidance.
 5.   The adjusted health impacts listed in the table above were calculated using the health impacts estimated using BAAQMD Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool and were adjusted using either the
      BAAQMD Diesel Risk Multiplier for diesel generators or the BAAQMD Multiplier for Gasoline Dispensing Facilities.
 6.   Refined modeling was conducted for the San Mateo Lumber Co, Inc. facility based on PM2.5 emissions provided by BAAQMD. Documentation is provided in Appendix D.


Abbreviations:
  BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
  m - meter
    3
  m - cubic meter
  MEISR - Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor
  µg - microgram
  OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
  PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
  HI - hazard index
  UTM - Universal Transverse Mercator

References:
      BAAQMD. 2012. Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool. May. Available online at:
      http://www.baaqmd.gov/plans‐and‐climate/california‐environmental‐quality‐act‐ceqa/ceqa‐tools
      Cal/EPA, 2015. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) Air Toxics Hot Spots Program. Risk Assessment Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments.
      February.




                                                                                                      Page 1 of 1
                                                           Table 13
                                                                                                                  1
          Project Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI, and PM2.5 Concentration at Off-site MEISR
                                                   405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                  San Mateo, California


                               UTM                            Lifetime Excess                            PM2.5
                                            UTM Easting
      Source Category         Northing                          Cancer Risk        Chronic HI         Concentration
                                                                                                                  3
                                         [m]                     [in a million]                           [µg/m ]
         Construction          560,100         4,157,840                 8.6          0.0053               0.026
                                               Threshold                 10             1                   0.3


Notes:
 1.
    Off-site Project MEISR was identified as the off-site sensitive receptor location with the maximum excess lifetime
    cancer risk, chronic HI, and PM2.5 concentration attributed to the emissions associated with the Project off-road
    construction equipment and traffic.


Abbreviations:
  HI - Hazard Index
  m - meter
  m3 - cubic meter
  µg - microgram
  MEISR - Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor
  PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
  UTM - Universal Transverse Mercator




                                                           Page 1 of 1
                                              Table 14
                             Project Acute HI at Off-site MEISR1
                                      405 E. 4th Avenue
                                    San Mateo, California


                            1-Hour Maximum
                                                            Acute REL2
                TAC           Concentration                                    Acute HI
                                          3                          3
                                  µg/m                        µg/m
      formaldehyde                  1.8                         55               0.033

      benzene                      0.25                       1,300             0.0092

      acetaldehyde                 0.92                        470              0.0019

      1,3-butadiene                0.024                       660             3.59E-05

      methyl ethyl ketone          0.18                       13,000           1.42E-05

      toluene                      0.18                       37,000           4.95E-06

      m-xylene                     0.076                      22,000           3.46E-06

      o-xylene                     0.042                      22,000           1.93E-06

      p-xylene                     0.012                      22,000           5.67E-07

      styrene                     0.0075                      21,000           3.56E-07

      methanol                    0.0037                      28,000           1.34E-07

                                                                 Acute HI        0.045

                                                                Threshold          1


Notes:
 1.
    Off-site Project MEISR was identified as the off-site sensitive receptor location with
    the maximum acute HI attributed to the emissions associated with the Project off-
    road construction equipment and traffic.
 2.
      The acute reference levels were obtained from Cal/EPA 2016.


Abbreviations:
      HI - Hazard Index
      m - meter
      m3 - cubic meter
      µg - microgram
      MEISR - Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor
      UTM - Universal Transverse Mercator


Reference:
      Cal/EPA. 2016. OEHHA/ARB Consolidated Table of Approved Risk Assessment Health
      Values. March. Available at: http://www.arb.ca.gov/toxics/healthval/contable.pdf
      Accessed June 2016.




                                              Page 1 of 1
                                                                Table 15
                             Maximum On-Site Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI, and PM2.5 Concentration1

                                                               405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                              San Mateo, California

       UTM              UTM                                                Lifetime Excess                                    PM2.5
      Northing         Easting              Source Category                  Cancer Risk              Chronic HI           Concentration
                 [m]                                                         [in a million]                                    [µg/m3]
                                           2,3
                                 Roadways                                         5.3                      --                   0.087
      560,020      4,157,880 Stationary Sources 3,4                               11                     0.037                  0.053
                                 Railway                                          0.50                 1.34E-04                6.72E-04
                                                                 Total            17                     0.037                   0.14
                                     BAAQMD Significance Threshold                100                      10                    0.8


Notes:
1.
     On-site MEISR was identified as the on-site sensitive receptor location with the maximum excess lifetime cancer risk, chronic HI, and
     PM2.5 concentration attributed to the emissions associated with nearby roadways, stationary sources, and the adjacent railway.
2.
     Screening estimates of health impacts were estimated with the BAAQMD Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator (BAAQMD 2015) for
     San Mateo County.
3.
     BAAQMD screening tool calculated impacts are based on previous OEHHA guidance. Per BAAQMD recommendations, cancer risks were
     conservatively scaled by a factor of 1.37 to account for the updated exposure parameters and calculation methodologies in OEHHA
     2015 guidance.
4.
     Results for stationary sources within 1,000 feet based on data provided by BAAQMD.


Abbreviations:
     BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
     HI - Hazard Index
     m - meter
     m3 - cubic meter
     µg - microgram
     OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
     MEISR - Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor
     PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
     UTM - Universal Transverse Mercator

References:
  BAAQMD. 2015. Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator. April. Available online at :
  http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/screeningcalculator_4_16_15-xlsx.xlsx?la=en
     BAAQMD. 2012. Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool. May. Available online at:
     http://www.baaqmd.gov/plans-and-climate/california-environmental-quality-act-ceqa/ceqa-tools
     Cal/EPA, 2015. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) Air Toxics Hot Spots Program. Risk Assessment
     Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. February.




                                                                    Page 1 of 1
                                                                      Table 16
                               Cumulative Excess Lifetime Cancer Risk, Chronic HI, and PM2.5 Concentration,
                                                                 at Off-site MEISR1
                                                                 405 E. 4th Avenue
                                                                San Mateo, California


        UTM               UTM                                                      Lifetime Excess                             PM2.5
       Northing          Easting                   Source Category                   Cancer Risk        Chronic HI          Concentration
                  [m]                                                               [in a million]                              [µg/m3]
                                    Project Construction                                 8.6              0.0053                 0.026
                                    Roadways 2,3                                         7.1                 -                   0.12
        560,100         4,157,840   Stationary Sources3,4                                13                0.075                 0.61
                                    Railway                                              1.3              0.00081               0.0040
                                                            Total Non-Project            21               0.076                  0.73
                                                            Cumulative Total             30               0.081                  0.76
                                              BAAQMD Significance Threshold             100                 10                    0.8

Notes:
 1. Off-site Project MEISR was identified as the off-site sensitive receptor location with the maximum excess lifetime cancer risk, chronic

    HI, and PM2.5 concentration attributed to the emissions associated with Project construction.
 2.
      Screening estimates of health impacts were estimated with the BAAQMD Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator (BAAQMD 2015) for
      San Mateo County.
 3.   BAAQMD screening tool calculated impacts are based on previous OEHHA guidance. Per BAAQMD recommendations, cancer risks were
      conservatively scaled by a factor of 1.37 to account for the updated exposure parameters and calculation methodologies in OEHHA
      2015 guidance.
 4.   Results for stationary sources within 1,000 feet based on data provided by BAAQMD.


Abbreviations:
      BAAQMD - Bay Area Air Quality Management District
      HI - Hazard Index
      m - meter
      m3 - cubic meter
      µg - microgram
      OEHHA - Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
      MEISR - Maximally Exposed Individual Sensitive Receptor
      PM2.5 - particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 microns or less
      UTM - Universal Transverse Mercator

References:
  BAAQMD. 2015. Roadway Screening Analysis Calculator. April. Available online at :
  http://www.baaqmd.gov/~/media/files/planning-and-research/ceqa/screeningcalculator_4_16_15-xlsx.xlsx?la=en
      BAAQMD. 2012. Stationary Source Screening Analysis Tool. May. Available online at:
      http://www.baaqmd.gov/plans‐and‐climate/california‐environmental‐quality‐act‐ceqa/ceqa‐tools
      Cal/EPA, 2015. Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) Air Toxics Hot Spots Program. Risk Assessment
      Guidelines. Guidance Manual for Preparation of Health Risk Assessments. February.




                                                                     Page 1 of 1
Air Quality Technical Report
   405 E. 4th Avenue Project
      San Mateo, California




              FIGURES




            Ramboll Environ
Legend
                                                                0         2,000
        Project Boundary                                                       feet



                                        Project Location              FIGURE
                                       405 E. 4th Avenue
                                        San Mateo, California              1
DRAFTED BY: DCW     DATE: 11/21/2016                                PROJECT: 03-41207A
www.idaxdata.com

                                                         Delaware St
                                                           3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                                                Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                      Peak Hour                                                                                Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                          Peak Hour: 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM




                                                                 485


                                                                                  494
                                       Delaware St




                                                                   464
                                                         20




                                                                                        1
                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                   3rd Ave

                               0                                                                                   112
                                                                                                                                                                                              43
              537                                                                                                                       920                                                                        2
                                                                                                                   492                                            0
                              43                              TEV: 1,955




                                                                                                                                                                                                       34
                                                                                                                                                                                    15
                                                              PHF: 0.91                                                                                           0                                                0
                               0                                                                                   316
              187                                                                                                                         0                       0                                                0
                             144                                                                                   0                                                                          37

                           3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                              HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                     Delaware St
                                                                       25

                                                                                 338

                                                                                            0
                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                    EB        1.6%        0.74
                                                                                                                                    WB        1.2%        0.95
                                                                                                                                    NB        1.7%        0.89
                                                                                                                                    SB        1.0%        0.81
                                                                 924


                                                                                  363




                                                                                                                                TOTAL         1.3%        0.91
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               3rd Ave                                                  3rd Ave                                      Delaware St                              Delaware St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                           15-min       Rolling
                             Eastbound                                                 Westbound                                        Northbound                            Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                             Total      One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                         RT         UT            LT    TH                        RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT       LT    TH            RT
          4:00 PM      0       7                     0        25             0          78      120                    25      0         6      61         1          0        0         107       7         437           0
          4:15 PM      0       7                     0        32             0          63      102                    20      0         8      69         0          0        0         100       5         406           0
          4:30 PM      0       7                     0        31             0          61      111                    26      0         9      80         0          0        0         113       10        448           0
          4:45 PM      0      12                     0        27             0          64      102                    22      0         8      73         0          0        0         119       9         436         1,727
          5:00 PM      0       6                     0        35             0          86      119                    23      0         5      85         0          0        0         104       4         467         1,757
          5:15 PM      0      16                     0        47             0          81      132                    29      0         12     71         0          0        0         142       7         537         1,888
          5:30 PM      0       8                     0        23             0          80      114                    30      0         6      96         0          1        0         117       5         480         1,920
          5:45 PM      0      13                     0        39             0          69      127                    30      0         2      86         0          0        0         101       4         471         1,955
        Count Total    0      76                     0        259            0         582      927                205         0         56     621        1          1        0         903       51       3,682          0
                All    0      43                     0        144            0         316      492                112         0         25     338        0          1        0         464       20       1,955          0
       Peak
                HV     0       0                     0         3             0          1        6                     4       0         0          6      0          0        0             5     0          25           0
       Hour
               HV%     -      0%                     -        2%             -         0%       1%                  4%         -         0%     2%          -         0%        -         1%       0%        1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval              Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                            Bicycles                                             Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB       WB      NB      SB                                      Total    EB                     WB         NB           SB         Total       East           West      North    South              Total
          4:00 PM      0           5                     0               2              7        0                         0        1           0          1              4              5              5           5       19
          4:15 PM      1           0                     5               2              8        0                         0        2           0          2              9              7              8           4       28
          4:30 PM      1           3                     0               2              6        0                         1        0           0          1           15                8              6           7       36
          4:45 PM      0           1                     1               5              7        0                         0        0           0          0              8              4              6          12       30
          5:00 PM      0           5                     3               0              8        0                         0        1           1          2              5              2             12          10       29
          5:15 PM      2           3                     1               0              6        0                         1        2           1          4           12                6             11          11       40
          5:30 PM      1           2                     1               1              5        0                         0        1           0          1              9              3             11           5       28
          5:45 PM      0           1                     1               4              6        0                         1        1           1          3              8              4              9          11       32
        Count Total    5        20                       12            16               53       0                         3        8           3          14          70                39            68          65      242
        Peak Hour      3        11                       6               5              25       0                         2        5           3          10          34                15            43          37      129




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                          deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                          Delaware St
                                                            4th Ave
                                                                                                                                                                     Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                       Peak Hour                                                                                    Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour: 4:30 PM to 5:30 PM




                                                                   913


                                                                                     338
                                       Delaware St




                                                                     462

                                                                               353
                                                           98




                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                        4th Ave

                               0                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   23
              134                                                                                                                              0                                                                        0
                                                                                                                        0                                              0
                              40                                TEV: 2,237




                                                                                                                                                                                                            26
                                                                                                                                                                                         13
                                                                PHF: 0.95                                                                                              0                                                0
                            781                                                                                         0
              846                                                                                                                        1,278                         0                                                0
                              25                                                                                        0                                                                          22

                           4th Ave
                                                                                                                                                   HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                          Delaware St
                                                                         36

                                                                                   298

                                                                                               144
                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                         EB        1.7%        0.97
                                                                                                                                         WB          -           -
                                                                                                                                         NB        1.0%        0.97
                                                                                                                                         SB        0.7%        0.91
                                                                   487


                                                                                     478




                                                                                                                                     TOTAL         1.1%        0.95
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               4th Ave                                                     4th Ave                                        Delaware St                               Delaware St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                15-min       Rolling
                             Eastbound                                                   Westbound                                           Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total      One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                           RT         UT            LT    TH                           RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH           RT
          4:00 PM      0       7                     174        7              0           0         0                      0       0         6          62     24         0         82       107       28        497           0
          4:15 PM      0       5                     208        11             0           0         0                      0       0         8          67     35         0         77           95    17        523           0
          4:30 PM      0      10                     203        5              0           0         0                      0       0         8          72     37         0         85           99    25        544           0
          4:45 PM      0       7                     189        7              0           0         0                      0       0         10         78     27         0         84       109       23        534         2,098
          5:00 PM      0      11                     197        6              0           0         0                      0       0         10         78     35         0         91       117       28        573         2,174
          5:15 PM      0      12                     192        7              0           0         0                      0       0         8          70     45         0         93       137       22        586         2,237
          5:30 PM      0       8                     177        8              0           0         0                      0       0         8          81     46         0         73       100       32        533         2,226
          5:45 PM      0       6                     179        4              0           0         0                      0       0         15         80     28         0         79       104       27        522         2,214
        Count Total    0      66               1,519            55             0           0         0                      0       0         73     588       277         0        664       868       202      4,312          0
                All    0      40                     781        25             0           0         0                      0       0         36     298       144         0        353       462       98       2,237          0
       Peak
                HV     0       2                     12         0              0           0         0                      0       0         0          3      2          0         3            3      0         25           0
       Hour
               HV%     -      5%                     2%         0%             -           -         -                      -       -         0%     1%        1%          -         1%        1%       0%        1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                  Bicycles                                          Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                                         Total       EB                     WB         NB           SB         Total       East        West      North    South                 Total
          4:00 PM      4           0                       1               3               8         2                          0        0           0          2              5              6              5           4       20
          4:15 PM      3           0                       3               2               8         0                          0        0           0          0              6              1              9           7       23
          4:30 PM      3           0                       0               2               5         0                          0        0           0          0              8              7              5           8       28
          4:45 PM      4           0                       1               3               8         0                          0        1           1          2              7              2              6           2       17
          5:00 PM      4           0                       2               0               6         0                          0        1           0          1              5              4              4           2       15
          5:15 PM      3           0                       2               1               6         0                          0        1           1          2              6              0              8          10       24
          5:30 PM      2           0                       0               1               3         0                          0        0           0          0              1              2              6           3       12
          5:45 PM      2           0                       2               4               8         0                          0        1           3          4              7              6              7           9       29
        Count Total   25           0                       11            16                52        2                          0        4           5          11             45             28            50          45      168
        Peak Hour     14           0                       5               6               25        0                          0        3           2          5              26             13            23          22       84




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                               deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                         Delaware St
                                                          E 5th Ave
                                                                                                                                                                   Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                       Peak Hour                                                                                  Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                             Peak Hour: 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM




                                                                  460


                                                                                    507
                                      Delaware St




                                                                     293
                                                          152



                                                                               15

                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                      E 5th Ave

                              0                                                                                       34
                                                                                                                                                                                                 15
              294                                                                                                                          147                                                                        0
                                                                                                                      99                                             0
                             63                                 TEV: 1,433




                                                                                                                                                                                                          15
                                                                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                PHF: 0.93                                                                                            2                                                0
                            261                                                                                       14
              358                                                                                                                          291                       0                                                0
                             34                                                                                       0                                                                          16

                       E 5th Ave
                                                                                                                                                 HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                        Delaware St
                                                                        43

                                                                                   410

                                                                                              15
                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                       EB        1.1%        0.84
                                                                                                                                       WB        0.0%        0.90
                                                                                                                                       NB        1.3%        0.91
                                                                                                                                       SB        0.7%        0.87
                                                                  341


                                                                                    468




                                                                                                                                   TOTAL         0.9%        0.93
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                             E 5th Ave                                                   E 5th Ave                                      Delaware St                               Delaware St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                              15-min       Rolling
                            Eastbound                                                    Westbound                                         Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                                Total      One Hour
                      UT    LT    TH                           RT          UT            LT    TH                         RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH           RT
          4:00 PM      0     22                     47          3              0          3        18                     2       0         6      67         4          0         2            75    32        281           0
          4:15 PM      0     16                     47          9              0          1        23                     11      0         9      76         3          0         3            63    32        293           0
          4:30 PM      0     24                     41          12             0          0        25                     3       0         4      93         5          0         4            69    42        322           0
          4:45 PM      0     12                     44          9              0          2        18                     4       0         16     100        2          0         4            83    41        335         1,231
          5:00 PM      0     18                     66          12             0          5        25                     8       0         14     91         5          0         2            66    38        350         1,300
          5:15 PM      0     16                     84          6              0          1        25                     10      0         9      102        1          0         8            81    43        386         1,393
          5:30 PM      0     13                     56          7              0          4        18                     10      0         10     113        6          0         3            66    41        347         1,418
          5:45 PM      0     16                     55          9              0          4        31                     6       0         10     104        3          0         2            80    30        350         1,433
        Count Total    0    137                     440         67             0          20       183                    54      0         78     746        29         0         28       583       299      2,664          0
                All    0     63                     261         34             0          14       99                     34      0         43     410        15         0         15       293       152      1,433          0
       Peak
                HV     0      0                      3          1              0          0         0                     0       0         1          5      0          0         0            3      0         13           0
       Hour
               HV%     -     0%                     1%         3%              -         0%        0%                  0%         -         2%     1%        0%          -         0%        1%       0%        1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                Bicycles                                          Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                                         Total     EB                     WB         NB           SB         Total       East        West      North    South                 Total
          4:00 PM      0          0                       1                2              3         0                         2        0           0          2              1              3             10           3       17
          4:15 PM      1          0                       3                0              4         1                         2        0           0          3              1              1              2           5          9
          4:30 PM      0          0                       0                1              1         1                         0        0           0          1              5              5              5           5       20
          4:45 PM      1          0                       1                3              5         2                         0        0           1          3              3              2              4           3       12
          5:00 PM      1          0                       2                0              3         0                         0        3           0          3              2              4              3           3       12
          5:15 PM      2          0                       2                0              4         1                         0        1           1          3              4              2              5           2       13
          5:30 PM      1          0                       0                1              2         0                         0        1           0          1              3              2              5           6       16
          5:45 PM      0          0                       2                2              4         1                         0        1           1          3              6              10             2           5       23
        Count Total    6          0                       11               9              26        6                         4        6           3          19             25             29            36          32      122
        Peak Hour      4          0                       6                3              13        2                         0        6           2          10             15             18            15          16       64




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                             deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                      Claremont St
                                                       E 3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                                                    Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                       Peak Hour                                                                                   Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                              Peak Hour: 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM




                                                                   186


                                                                                    159
                                      Claremont St




                                                                     136
                                                           32



                                                                               18

                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                       E 3rd Ave

                              0                                                                                        35
                                                                                                                                                                                                   54
              551                                                                                                                           564                                                                         0
                                                                                                                       499                                            0
                             13                                 TEV: 1,109




                                                                                                                                                                                                            61
                                                                                                                                                                                         39
                                                                PHF: 0.92                                                                                             1                                                 1
                            146                                                                                        30
              201                                                                                                                           190                       0                                                 0
                             42                                                                                        0                                                                           45

                       E 3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                                  HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                        Claremont St
                                                                         20

                                                                                   111

                                                                                              26
                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                        EB        1.0%        0.82
                                                                                                                                        WB        1.8%        0.92
                                                                                                                                        NB        0.0%        0.81
                                                                                                                                        SB        3.8%        0.89
                                                                   209


                                                                                    158




                                                                                                                                    TOTAL         1.7%        0.92
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                             E 3rd Ave                                                   E 3rd Ave                                       Claremont St                              Claremont St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                15-min       Rolling
                            Eastbound                                                    Westbound                                          Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total      One Hour
                      UT    LT    TH                           RT          UT            LT    TH                          RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH            RT
          4:00 PM      0      6                      23         7              0          11       112                     10      0         4      22         5          0          2            39    7         248           0
          4:15 PM      0      3                      30         8              0          12       99                      6       0         4      24         6          0          2            32    3         229           0
          4:30 PM      0      8                      38         6              0          6        125                     5       0         5      36         4          0          1            32    11        277           0
          4:45 PM      0      0                      29         6              0          12       114                     5       0         3      25         6          0          3            23    5         231          985
          5:00 PM      0      3                      36         10             0          7        112                     15      0         3      23         5          0          3            36    7         260          997
          5:15 PM      0      5                      47         9              0          9        134                     10      0         6      24         4          0          7            35    10        300         1,068
          5:30 PM      0      3                      24         13             0          8        117                     6       1         4      32         7          0          2            32    7         256         1,047
          5:45 PM      0      2                      39         10             0          6        136                     4       0         7      32         10         0          6            33    8         293         1,109
        Count Total    0     30                      266        69             0          71       949                     61      1         36     218        47         0         26        262       58       2,094          0
                All    0     13                      146        42             0          30       499                     35      1         20     111        26         0         18        136       32       1,109          0
       Peak
                HV     0      0                       2         0              0          0        10                      0       0         0          0      0          0          1            6     0          19           0
       Hour
               HV%     -     0%                      1%        0%              -         0%        2%                   0%         0%        0%     0%        0%          -         6%         4%       0%        2%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                 Bicycles                                           Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                                         Total     EB                      WB         NB           SB         Total       East         West      North    South                 Total
          4:00 PM      0          1                        1               1              3         1                          1        1           1          4              8               7             13           8       36
          4:15 PM      1          0                        0               1              2         0                          1        1           0          2              4               4             12           4       24
          4:30 PM      1          3                        2               0              6         0                          1        0           0          1              3               7              5           7       22
          4:45 PM      0          1                        1               2              4         0                          0        0           2          2              2               6              9          10       27
          5:00 PM      0          3                        0               2              5         0                          0        1           1          2              12              7             13          16       48
          5:15 PM      1          3                        0               2              6         0                          0        1           0          1              21              6             13          11       51
          5:30 PM      1          3                        0               1              5         0                          0        2           0          2              5               10            13           8       36
          5:45 PM      0          1                        0               2              3         1                          1        2           6          10             23              16            15          10       64
        Count Total    4       15                          4             11               34        2                          4        8          10          24             78              63            93          74      308
        Peak Hour      2       10                          0               7              19        1                          1        6           7          15             61              39            54          45      199




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                               deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                       Claremont St
                                                          4th Ave
                                                                                                                                                                     Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                        Peak Hour                                                                                   Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour: 4:30 PM to 5:30 PM




                                                                    192


                                                                                     147
                                       Claremont St




                                                                      103
                                                            23



                                                                                66

                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                        4th Ave

                               0                                                                                        17
                                                                                                                                                                                                    41
              149                                                                                                                            134                                                                         0
                                                                                                                        113                                            0
                              30                                 TEV: 1,268




                                                                                                                                                                                                             42
                                                                                                                                                                                          16
                                                                 PHF: 0.99                                                                                             0                                                 0
                            717                                                                                         4
              770                                                                                                                            842                       0                                                 0
                              23                                                                                        0                                                                           13

                           4th Ave
                                                                                                                                                   HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                         Claremont St
                                                                          13

                                                                                    100

                                                                                               59
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                         EB        0.9%        0.96
                                                                                                                                         WB        0.0%        0.88
                                                                                                                                         NB        1.2%        0.93
                                                                                                                                         SB        2.6%        0.86
                                                                    130


                                                                                     172




                                                                                                                                     TOTAL         1.1%        0.99
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               4th Ave                                                      4th Ave                                       Claremont St                              Claremont St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                 15-min       Rolling
                             Eastbound                                                    Westbound                                          Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total      One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                           RT          UT            LT    TH                          RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH            RT
          4:00 PM      0       4                      157        4              0          1        34                      4       0         1      27         19         0         25            25    4         305           0
          4:15 PM      0       6                      178        3              0          4        20                      5       0         2      24         23         0         24            25    3         317           0
          4:30 PM      0      12                      182        6              0          0        27                      3       0         3      28         14         0         14            24    4         317           0
          4:45 PM      0       8                      185        5              0          1        28                      2       0         1      25         14         0         13            26    6         314         1,253
          5:00 PM      0       4                      172        5              0          2        30                      6       0         5      20         16         0         25            27    4         316         1,264
          5:15 PM      0       6                      178        7              0          1        28                      6       0         4      27         15         0         14            26    9         321         1,268
          5:30 PM      0       5                      152        6              0          2        32                      4       0         1      35         11         0         23            16    5         292         1,243
          5:45 PM      0       6                      169        5              0          3        23                      10      0         3      32         7          0         18            26    9         311         1,240
        Count Total    0      51                1,373            41             0          14       222                     40      0         20     218       119         0         156       195       44       2,493          0
                All    0      30                      717        23             0          4        113                     17      0         13     100        59         0         66        103       23       1,268          0
       Peak
                HV     0       0                       7         0              0          0         0                      0       0         0          2      0          0          4            1     0          14           0
       Hour
               HV%     -      0%                      1%        0%              -         0%        0%                   0%         -         0%     2%        0%          -         6%         1%       0%        1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                  Bicycles                                           Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                                          Total     EB                      WB         NB           SB         Total       East         West      North    South                 Total
          4:00 PM      3           0                        2               1              6         0                          0        1           0          1              8               1              8           8       25
          4:15 PM      2           0                        1               1              4         0                          0        0           0          0              4               8              8           4       24
          4:30 PM      1           0                        1               0              2         0                          0        0           0          0              12              6              9           5       32
          4:45 PM      2           0                        1               3              6         0                          0        0           2          2              9               6              7           1       23
          5:00 PM      2           0                        0               1              3         0                          0        2           1          3              12              1             14           2       29
          5:15 PM      2           0                        0               1              3         0                          0        1           1          2              9               3             11           5       28
          5:30 PM      2           0                        0               0              2         0                          0        2           0          2              12              5              3           7       27
          5:45 PM      3           0                        0               0              3         0                          0        1           5          6              16              6             15          10       47
        Count Total   17           0                        5               7              29        0                          0        7           9          16             82              36            75          42      235
        Peak Hour      7           0                        2               5              14        0                          0        3           4          7              42              16            41          13      112




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                                deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                       Claremont St
                                                          5th Ave
                                                                                                                                                                    Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                        Peak Hour                                                                                  Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                              Peak Hour: 4:30 PM to 5:30 PM




                                                                    144


                                                                                    177
                                       Claremont St




                                                                      93
                                                            24



                                                                               27

                                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                       5th Ave

                               0                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                                                                                   15
              283                                                                                                                           298                                                                         0
                                                                                                                       236                                            0
                              57                                 TEV: 956




                                                                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                                         16
                                                                 PHF: 0.94                                                                                            4                                                 0
                            270                                                                                        42
              353                                                                                                                           335                       0                                                 0
                              26                                                                                       0                                                                           15

                           5th Ave
                                                                                                                                                  HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                        Claremont St
                                                                          23

                                                                                   100

                                                                                              38
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                        EB        0.8%        0.86
                                                                                                                                        WB        0.3%        0.97
                                                                                                                                        NB        1.2%        0.86
                                                                                                                                        SB        1.4%        0.90
                                                                    161


                                                                                    161




                                                                                                                                    TOTAL         0.8%        0.94
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               5th Ave                                                     5th Ave                                       Claremont St                              Claremont St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                15-min       Rolling
                             Eastbound                                                   Westbound                                          Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total      One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                           RT         UT            LT    TH                          RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH            RT
          4:00 PM      0       9                      59         7             0          13       44                      4       0         4      34         5          0          4            23    4         210           0
          4:15 PM      0      16                      64         8             0          9        50                      8       0         4      27         7          0          1            25    7         226           0
          4:30 PM      0      17                      54         11            0          11       57                      4       0         6      27         14         0          8            21    8         238           0
          4:45 PM      0      11                      55         3             0          9        61                      2       0         4      25         5          0          8            22    6         211          885
          5:00 PM      0      17                      81         5             0          10       62                      5       0         9      26         8          0          5            22    4         254          929
          5:15 PM      0      12                      80         7             0          12       56                      9       0         4      22         11         0          6            28    6         253          956
          5:30 PM      0      15                      67         6             0          10       59                      3       0         8      33         6          0          6            19    2         234          952
          5:45 PM      0       9                      70         4             0          6        53                      5       0         3      29         4          0          4            20    5         212          953
        Count Total    0     106                      530        51            0          80       442                     40      0         42     223        60         0         42        180       42       1,838          0
                All    0      57                      270        26            0          42       236                     20      0         23     100        38         0         27            93    24        956           0
       Peak
                HV     0       0                       2         1             0          0         1                      0       0         0          2      0          0          0            2     0          8            0
       Hour
               HV%     -      0%                      1%        4%             -         0%        0%                   0%         -         0%     2%        0%          -         0%         2%       0%        1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                 Bicycles                                           Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                                         Total     EB                      WB         NB           SB         Total       East         West      North    South                 Total
          4:00 PM      0           2                        2              0              4         2                          3        1           0          6              5               1             10           9       25
          4:15 PM      2           0                        0              0              2         2                          2        0           1          5              0               2              2           4          8
          4:30 PM      0           0                        1              1              2         1                          0        0           1          2              1               6              1           8       16
          4:45 PM      1           0                        1              1              3         2                          0        0           0          2              2               4              3           5       14
          5:00 PM      1           0                        0              0              1         0                          0        0           1          1              5               5              7           1       18
          5:15 PM      1           1                        0              0              2         1                          0        1           1          3              3               1              4           1          9
          5:30 PM      0           0                        0              0              0         0                          1        2           0          3              1               2              2           9       14
          5:45 PM      0           1                        0              0              1         1                          0        2           5          8              7               2              6           2       17
        Count Total    5           4                        4              2              15        9                          6        6           9          30             24              23            35          39      121
        Peak Hour      3           1                        2              2              8         4                          0        1           3          8              11              16            15          15       57




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                               deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                            S B St
                                                           3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                                         Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                  Peak Hour                                                                             Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour: 4:30 PM to 5:30 PM




                                                              182


                                                                               258
                                       S B St




                                                                132
                                                      33



                                                                          17

                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                            3rd Ave

                               0                                                                            98
                                                                                                                                                                                        97
              312                                                                                                                457                                                                          1
                                                                                                            251                                            0
                              29                           TEV: 1,049




                                                                                                                                                                                                 155
                                                                                                                                                                             158
                                                           PHF: 0.9                                                                                        0                                                  2
                             156                                                                            108
              216                                                                                                                208                       1                                                  0
                              31                                                                            0                                                                          104

                           3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                       HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                   S B St
                                                                    28

                                                                              131

                                                                                         35
                                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                             EB        0.5%        0.90
                                                                                                                             WB        0.7%        0.87
                                                                                                                             NB        0.5%        0.92
                                                                                                                             SB        1.1%        0.81
                                                              271


                                                                               194




                                                                                                                         TOTAL         0.7%        0.90
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               3rd Ave                                               3rd Ave                                       S B St                                 S B St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                      15-min       Rolling
                             Eastbound                                              Westbound                                    Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                        Total      One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                     RT          UT            LT    TH                    RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH            RT
          4:00 PM      0      15                29         11             0          25       70                23      0         4      24         8          0         4             36    6          255           0
          4:15 PM      0       4                28         6              0          17       57                28      0         6      37         10         0         5             37    9          244           0
          4:30 PM      0      10                38         7              0          28       68                27      0         8      25         11         0         3             23    9          257           0
          4:45 PM      0       3                35         9              0          31       64                17      0         5      38         7          0         2             44    10         265         1,021
          5:00 PM      0      10                40         4              0          19       49                22      0         5      36         12         0         4             25    8          234         1,000
          5:15 PM      0       6                43         11             0          30       70                32      0         10     32         5          0         8             40    6          293         1,049
          5:30 PM      0       6                27         13             0          22       72                24      0         5      30         2          0         5             24    6          236         1,028
          5:45 PM      0       5                36         14             0          26       75                30      0         8      38         5          0         7             30    10         284         1,047
        Count Total    0      59                276        75             0         198       525           203         0         51     260        60         0         38         259      64        2,068          0
                All    0      29                156        31             0         108       251               98      0         28     131        35         0         17         132      33        1,049          0
       Peak
                HV     0       0                 1         0              0          1         2                0       0         0          0      1          0         0             0     2           7            0
       Hour
               HV%     -      0%                1%        0%              -         1%        1%             0%         -         0%     0%        3%          -        0%          0%       6%         1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval              Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                     Bicycles                                          Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB       WB      NB      SB                                   Total     EB                WB         NB           SB         Total       East        West      North    South                   Total
          4:00 PM      0           0                  0               0              0         0                    1        1           1          3              41              31            38           27      137
          4:15 PM      1           0                  1               2              4         0                    0        0           1          1              22              24            28           16       90
          4:30 PM      0           0                  1               2              3         1                    0        0           3          4              17              40            19           21       97
          4:45 PM      0           0                  0               0              0         0                    0        1           1          2              61              43            31           24      159
          5:00 PM      0           1                  0               0              1         0                    2        0           1          3              39              35            30           33      137
          5:15 PM      1           2                  0               0              3         0                    1        0           3          4              38              40            17           26      121
          5:30 PM      0           2                  0               0              2         0                    0        0           1          1              42              44            26           23      135
          5:45 PM      0           0                  0               0              0         0                    0        0           5          5              33              45            44           25      147
        Count Total    2           5                  2               4              13        1                    4        2          16          23         293                 302           233         195      1,023
        Peak Hour      1           3                  1               2              7         1                    3        1           8          13         155                 158           97          104      514




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                    deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                           B St
                                                         4th Ave
                                                                                                                                                      Date: 09/28/2016
                        N                                Peak Hour                                                                            Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                Peak Hour: 4:45 PM to 5:45 PM




                                                            259


                                                                             190
                                                              126
                                       B St


                                                    55



                                                                        78




                                                                                                                                                                                      10
                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                        4th Ave

                               0                                                                        20
                                                                                                                                                                                     63
              181                                                                                                            127                                                                            1
                                                                                                        99                                              0
                              40                         TEV: 1,304




                                                                                                                                                                                               132
                                                                                                                                                                          105
                                                         PHF: 0.97                                                                                      0                                                   0
                            608                                                                         8
              694                                                                                                            753                        0                                                   0
                              46                                                                        0                                                                             98

                           4th Ave
                                                                                                                                   HV %:        PHF
                                                                                                 B St
                                                                  27

                                                                            130

                                                                                       67
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                         EB         0.6%        0.93
                                                                                                                         WB         0.0%        0.93
                                                                                                                         NB         0.4%        0.85
                                                                                                                         SB         0.8%        0.81
                                                            180


                                                                             224




                                                                                                                     TOTAL          0.5%        0.97
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               4th Ave                                              4th Ave                                        B St                                    B St
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                    15-min       Rolling
                             Eastbound                                            Westbound                                  Northbound                              Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                      Total      One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                   RT          UT            LT    TH                  RT      UT        LT    TH           RT         UT        LT    TH             RT
          4:00 PM      0       8              136        6              0          1        19              3       0         5        16        12         0         16            16      9         247           0
          4:15 PM      0       5              135        11             0          2        21              3       0         6        27        14         0         28            34      9         295           0
          4:30 PM      0       4              126        10             0          3        28              5       0         6        26        14         0         21            16     16         275           0
          4:45 PM      0      11              147        14             0          4        22              7       0         6        23        17         0         30            31     19         331         1,148
          5:00 PM      0       9              158        7              0          2        23              4       0         8        36        22         0         18            35     15         337         1,238
          5:15 PM      0       6              166        15             0          0        28              3       0         5        33        14         0         14            22     12         318         1,261
          5:30 PM      0      14              137        10             0          2        26              6       0         8        38        14         0         16            38      9         318         1,304
          5:45 PM      0       6              119        10             0          4        28              8       0         7        34        20         0         10            32     19         297         1,270
        Count Total    0      63          1,124          83             0          18       195             39      0         51      233       127         0        153         224       108       2,418          0
                All    0      40              608        46             0          8        99              20      0         27      130        67         0         78         126       55        1,304          0
       Peak
                HV     0       0               4         0              0          0         0              0       0         0           1      0          0         1             1       0          7            0
       Hour
               HV%     -      0%              1%        0%              -         0%        0%           0%         -         0%      1%        0%          -        1%          1%        0%         1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                  Bicycles                                           Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                                  Total     EB              WB         NB            SB         Total       East        West      North    South                    Total
          4:00 PM      1           0                0               0              1         0                  0        0           1           1              27              14              7           10       58
          4:15 PM      2           0                0               2              4         1                  0        0           2           3              19              21             11           11       62
          4:30 PM      1           0                0               0              1         0                  1        1           0           2              22              16              7           12       57
          4:45 PM      2           0                0               1              3         0                  0        0           6           6              33              28             18           13       92
          5:00 PM      1           0                0               0              1         0                  0        1           1           2              32              22             14           31       99
          5:15 PM      1           0                1               0              2         0                  1        0           2           3              29              28             17           31      105
          5:30 PM      0           0                0               1              1         0                  0        3           1           4              38              27             14           23      102
          5:45 PM      0           0                0               0              0         0                  0        1           6           7              34              29             17           15       95
        Count Total    8           0                1               4              13        1                  2        6           19          28         234                 185            105         146      670
        Peak Hour      4           0                1               2              7         0                  1        4           10          15         132                 105            63           98      398




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                  deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                       San Mateo Dr
                                                         3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                                                     Date: 09/28/2016
                        N                                        Peak Hour                                                                                   Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour: 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM




                                                                    333


                                                                                     219
                                       San Mateo Dr




                                                                      264
                                                            39



                                                                                30

                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                        3rd Ave

                               0                                                                                        46
                                                                                                                                                                                                    134
              224                                                                                                                            244                                                                           0
                                                                                                                        166                                            1
                              41                                 TEV: 1,057




                                                                                                                                                                                                              91
                                                                                                                                                                                          95
                                                                 PHF: 0.93                                                                                             2                                                   2
                             185                                                                                        32
              305                                                                                                                            239                       0                                                   1
                              79                                                                                        0                                                                           152

                           3rd Ave
                                                                                                                                                   HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                         San Mateo Dr
                                                                          19

                                                                                    132

                                                                                               24
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                         EB        0.3%        0.77
                                                                                                                                         WB        0.4%        0.97
                                                                                                                                         NB        1.7%        0.81
                                                                                                                                         SB        1.2%        0.89
                                                                    375


                                                                                     175




                                                                                                                                     TOTAL         0.9%        0.93
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               3rd Ave                                                     3rd Ave                                       San Mateo Dr                               San Mateo Dr
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                   15-min       Rolling
                             Eastbound                                                    Westbound                                          Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total      One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                           RT          UT            LT    TH                          RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH             RT
          4:00 PM      0       6                      48         15             0          2        49                      15      0         3      34         6          0          11           66     3          258           0
          4:15 PM      0       7                      42         13             0          8        49                      14      0         2      32         7          0          11           51     14         250           0
          4:30 PM      0      13                      38         8              0          4        48                      9       0         5      37         5          0          11           73     5          256           0
          4:45 PM      0       4                      53         11             0          12       53                      5       0         3      33         3          0          12           72     8          269         1,033
          5:00 PM      0       5                      36         18             0          10       42                      10      0         1      36         2          0          5            67     6          238         1,013
          5:15 PM      0       9                      46         15             0          7        39                      12      0         8      38         8          0          13           69     12         276         1,039
          5:30 PM      0       9                      46         22             0          7        44                      10      0         3      27         7          0          7            65     13         260         1,043
          5:45 PM      0      18                      57         24             0          8        41                      14      0         7      31         7          0          5            63     8          283         1,057
        Count Total    0      71                      366       126             0          58       365                     89      0         32     268        45         0          75        526       69        2,090          0
                All    0      41                      185        79             0          32       166                     46      0         19     132        24         0          30        264       39        1,057          0
       Peak
                HV     0       0                       1         0              0          0         1                      0       0         0          3      0          0          0             4     0           9            0
       Hour
               HV%     -      0%                      1%        0%              -         0%        1%                   0%         -         0%     2%        0%          -         0%         2%        0%         1%            0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval              Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                 Bicycles                                           Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB       WB      NB      SB                                         Total     EB                      WB         NB           SB         Total       East         West      North    South                   Total
          4:00 PM      1           0                        0               2              3         0                          0        2           0          2              16               9             26           26       77
          4:15 PM      1           0                        0               0              1         0                          0        0           1          1              16              21             17           11       65
          4:30 PM      1           0                        0               1              2         1                          1        1           0          3              16              18             23           23       80
          4:45 PM      0           0                        1               3              4         0                          2        1           0          3              18              24             27           25       94
          5:00 PM      0           1                        0               0              1         1                          1        2           0          4              14              24             36           31      105
          5:15 PM      1           0                        1               2              4         1                          0        1           0          2              20              23             26           39      108
          5:30 PM      0           0                        1               1              2         1                          1        0           1          3              27              30             44           52      153
          5:45 PM      0           0                        1               1              2         0                          1        0           2          3              30              18             28           30      106
        Count Total    4           1                        4             10               19        4                          6        7           4          21         157                 167            227         237      788
        Peak Hour      1           1                        3               4              9         3                          3        3           3          12             91              95             134         152      472




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                                 deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
www.idaxdata.com

                                                       San Mateo Dr
                                                         4th Ave
                                                                                                                                                                      Date: 09/22/2016
                        N                                        Peak Hour                                                                                    Count Period: 4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                Peak Hour: 4:30 PM to 5:30 PM




                                                                    348


                                                                                      188
                                       San Mateo Dr




                                                                      140

                                                                                138
                                                            70




                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                         4th Ave

                               0                                                                                         31
                                                                                                                                                                                                    119
              246                                                                                                                             233                                                                           0
                                                                                                                         166                                            0
                              38                                 TEV: 1,192




                                                                                                                                                                                                               78
                                                                                                                                                                                           94
                                                                 PHF: 0.97                                                                                              0                                                   0
                            365                                                                                          36
              447                                                                                                                             538                       0                                                   0
                              44                                                                                         0                                                                            93

                           4th Ave
                                                                                                                                                    HV %:       PHF
                                                                                                          San Mateo Dr
                                                                          10

                                                                                    119

                                                                                                35
                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                          EB        1.3%        0.86
                                                                                                                                          WB        0.0%        0.94
                                                                                                                                          NB        0.6%        0.79
                                                                                                                                          SB        2.3%        0.92
                                                                    220


                                                                                      164




                                                                                                                                      TOTAL         1.3%        0.97
       Two-Hour Count Summaries
                               4th Ave                                                      4th Ave                                       San Mateo Dr                               San Mateo Dr
         Interval                                                                                                                                                                                                    15-min        Rolling
                             Eastbound                                                    Westbound                                           Northbound                             Southbound
           Start                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total       One Hour
                      UT     LT    TH                           RT          UT            LT    TH                           RT      UT        LT    TH          RT         UT        LT    TH             RT
          4:00 PM      0      14                      66         11             0           5        41                      14      0         4      22         6          0          33           22     19         257            0
          4:15 PM      0       9                      84         11             0           6        30                      15      0         8      30         1          0          39           23      7         263            0
          4:30 PM      0      12                      90         17             0           7        42                      11      0         2      19         4          0          43           26     26         299            0
          4:45 PM      0      10                      111        9              0           5        43                      4       0         2      23         15         0          28           40     16         306          1,125
          5:00 PM      0       9                      86         8              0           8        46                      8       0         3      44         5          0          34           34     14         299          1,167
          5:15 PM      0       7                      78         10             0           16       35                      8       0         3      33         11         0          33           40     14         288          1,192
          5:30 PM      0       9                      61         13             0           7        35                      14      0         3      25         13         0          40           35     18         273          1,166
          5:45 PM      0      13                      80         10             0           10       40                      8       0         2      40         8          0          39           27     14         291          1,151
        Count Total    0      83                      656        89             0           64       312                     82      0         27     236        63         0         289        247       128       2,276           0
                All    0      38                      365        44             0           36       166                     31      0         10     119        35         0         138        140       70        1,192           0
       Peak
                HV     0       0                       5         1              0           0         0                      0       0         0          1      0          0          3            1       4          15            0
       Hour
               HV%     -      0%                      1%        2%              -         0%         0%                   0%         -         0%     1%        0%          -         2%         1%        6%         1%             0
      Note: Two-hour count summary volumes include heavy vehicles but exclude bicycles in overall count.

         Interval             Heavy Vehicle Totals                                                                                   Bicycles                                           Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
           Start      EB      WB      NB      SB                                          Total      EB                      WB         NB           SB         Total       East         West      North    South                    Total
          4:00 PM      2           0                        1               3               6         0                          0        0           0          0              21              35             38           34       128
          4:15 PM      1           0                        0               0               1         1                          0        0           0          1              28              28             36           42       134
          4:30 PM      1           0                        0               3               4         0                          0        0           0          0              28              19             28           16        91
          4:45 PM      2           0                        0               3               5         0                          0        0           0          0              11              15             17           15        58
          5:00 PM      3           0                        1               1               5         0                          0        2           1          3              17              31             35           31       114
          5:15 PM      0           0                        0               1               1         0                          0        0           2          2              22              29             39           31       121
          5:30 PM      0           0                        0               1               1         0                          0        0           0          0              24              24             37           31       116
          5:45 PM      0           0                        1               2               3         0                          0        0           2          2              25              40             33           22       120
        Count Total    9           0                        3             14                26        1                          0        2           5          8          176                 221            263          222      882
        Peak Hour      6           0                        1               8               15        0                          0        2           3          5              78              94             119          93       384




Deon Fouche: 415 - 757 - 7714                                                                                                                                                                                  deon.fouche@idaxdata.com
